The following is a conversation with Michael Malis, an anarchist, political thinker, author,
and a proud, part time, Andy Kaufman like troll, in the best sense of that word, on both Twitter
and in real life. He's a host of a great podcast called You're Welcome, spelled Y O U R. I think
that gives a sense of his sense of humor. He is the author of Dear Reader, the unauthorized
autobiography of King Jong Il and The New Right, a journey to the fringe of American politics.
This latter book, when I read it or rather listened to it last year, helped me start
learning about the various disparate movements that I was undereducated about from the internet
trolls to Alex Jones to white nationalists and to techno anarchists. The book is funny and brilliant
and so is Michael. Unfortunately, because of a self imposed deadline, I actually pulled an all
nighter before this conversation. So I was not exactly all there mentally, even more so than
usual, which is tough because Michael is really quick witted and brilliant. But he was kind,
patient, and understanding in this conversation. And I hope you will be as well. Today, I'm trying
something a little new, looking to establish a regular structure for these intros of first,
doing the guest intro like I just did. Second, quick one or two sentence mention of each sponsor.
Third, my side comments related to the episode. And finally fourth, full ad reads on the audio
side of things. And on YouTube, going straight to the conversation. So not doing the full ad
reads. And as always, no ads in the middle because to me, they get in the way of the conversation.
So quick mention of the sponsors. First, SEM Rush, the most advanced SEO optimization
tool I've ever come across. I don't like looking at numbers, but someone probably should. It helps
you make good decisions. Second sponsor is DoorDash, food delivery service that I've used for many
years to fuel long uninterrupted sessions of deep work at Google MIT. And I still use it a lot today.
Third sponsor is Masterclass, online courses from the best people in the world on each of the
topics covered from rockets to game design to poker to writing and to guitar with Carlos Santana.
Please check out the sponsors in the description to get a discount and to support this podcast.
As a side note, let me say that I hope to have some conversations with political thinkers,
including liberals and conservatives, anarchists, libertarians, objectivists, and everything in
between. I'm as allergic to Trump bashing and Trump worship as you probably are. I have none
of that in me. I really work hard to be open minded and let my curiosity drive the conversation.
I do plead with you to be patient on two counts. First, I have an intense, busy life outside of
these podcasts. Like it's 4am right now as I'm recording this. So sometimes life affects these
conversations. Like in this case, I pull an all nighter beforehand. So please be patient with me
if I say something ineliquent, confusing, dumb, or just plain wrong. I'll try to correct myself on
social media or in future conversations as much as I can. I really am always learning and working
hard to improve. Second, if I or the guest says something about, for example, our current president
Donald Trump that's over the top negative or over the top positive, please don't let your brain go
into partisan mode. Try to hear our words in an open minded, nuanced way. And if we say stuff from
a place of emotion, please give us a pass. Nuance conversation can only happen if we're patient with
each other. If you enjoy this thing, subscribe on YouTube, review the five stars in Apple podcast,
follow on Spotify, support on Patreon, or connect with me on Twitter, Alex Friedman. And now here's
my conversation with Michael Malis. There was a Simpsons episode where he starts mixing like sleeping
pills with like pet pills, and he's driving his truck. And I'm like, I want to see what happens
if he makes Red Bull a night truck called fruit. There's a lineup of drugs. This is going to be so
fun. This is good. Yeah. Let's start with love. Yeah. So one, one thing we'll eventually somehow
talk about, it'll be a theme throughout is that you're also Russian. Yes. A little bit less than me.
But how am I, because I'm from Ukraine? Oh, you're from Ukraine? Okay. Well, no, because you came here
a little bit when you were younger. Yeah. I came here when I was 13. So I saturated a little bit
of the Russian soul. I marinated in the Russian soul a little deeper. I haven't told anyone this,
but I'll be glad to tell you, Davidish. I haven't been back since I was two. And next summer, it
looks like me, my buddy Chris Williamson, who's also a podcaster, he's British modern wisdom,
he looks like Apollo. We're, we look like we got a videographer. Which Apollo? The God? He looks like
the God Apollo. Yeah, he's like a model. So we're going to go for the first time to see where I came
from. Which is in Ukraine. We're going to go to Levov and either St. Petersburg or Moscow,
probably St. Petersburg or both. It's going to be intense. It's going to be a lot of panic attacks,
I feel. And you're Russian is okay? You can't talk Russian and Ukraine or they get offended.
Yeah. But then you also want to go to Russia? Yeah. I don't know. For me, there's several people
in Russia. I want to interview on a podcast. Okay. So one of them is a good girl, a proman,
which is a mathematician. And the other person is Putin. You know, my favorite Putin story is,
do you know this? No. When he had Merkel with him, do you know this story? No.
Merkel's scared of dogs, like petrified of dogs. So he brings in his like, like, like a black lab.
It's a Labrador. It's like the sweetest animal. And it's all over her. And there's pictures and
she's sitting like this and she's terrified. And he's like, what's wrong, Angela? It's just completely
trolling her. Yeah. He's aware of the sort of the narrative around him. Yeah. And then he plays with
it. Yes. He enjoys it. It's a very Russian thing. My friend wanted to do a film about me. He goes,
I realized you guys aren't like us at all. You just like, like, look at us. And then I started
telling him stories about the upbringing. And he's like, Oh my God. And as I'm telling them,
I'm like, wow, this stuff is really crazy. Like what, how we are wired. Who's the, your friend is?
The Russian, the friend's American. I'm saying the way Russians are brought up and the way maybe,
I don't think it was just my family. I bet you had similar things. Like, here's an example. I was,
I had a buddy staying with me. He had a problem with his roommate. So he crashed into my place.
Fine. I went to the gym and I come back and he goes, Oh, there was, and my apartment building
is for four apartments. So it's not like a huge thing. He goes, Oh, there was someone knocking at
your door. So, you know, I told him, blah, blah. And, and for me, and I want to know if you're
the same way, if I'm at someone's house that's not my own and someone knocks on the door,
I wouldn't even think to answer it. Like if I had an apple here, maybe I'd eat it, I'd cut it,
whatever. I'm not going to, it just doesn't enter my head to smash into my face. But the thought of
answering the door, if it's not my house, it would never enter my head would enter your head.
No, but why? But he's an American. So someone's at the door. He goes and opens it, even though
it's not his house. I would never do that. I would never think to do that. That is so strange
that you pick some very obscure thing to delineate Americans. I don't think that's obscure because
I think it speaks to how we perceive strangers with Americans, everyone's friendly. And with us,
it's like, no, no, no, like you have that moat. And I think that's a that percolates into many
different aspects of how we relate to people. And I had to undo a lot of that. That's true.
You're right. There's the relationship I formed there where in Russia, we're very deep,
yes, close. And then there's the strangers, the other that you don't trust by default,
it takes a long time to go over the moat of trust. For a long time, until recently,
whenever I said anything to anyone, my brain ran a scan that said, if this person turns on you,
would this, can they use this against you? And I would do everything I said with strangers.
And after a while, it's like, you know what, maybe they will, but I'm strong enough to take it. But
this is not how Americans think. Well, here's another one. Let me ask you this. Sorry,
I'm taking over the interview. People asked about like advice for work, right? Like I had this,
there was this party I went to and basically everyone had their own problems and everyone
else gave their advice, right? And someone's having a problem with the coworker. And the advice
these DuPois Americans gave them is, oh, sit down and have a talk with them. And to me,
this is like the last case, last resort. Like first, you have to see what you can without
showing your hand, showing your vulnerability, only when everything hasn't worked out or you're
like, all right, let me sit down with you and try to have it out with you probably. But for them,
the first thing is like sit down and be like, oh, you're causing me problems and blah, blah, blah.
So I perceive that right away is a threat that this person sees an antagonism between us and
also as a weakness that I'm getting to them. So my reaction isn't, how do I make it better? My
reaction is to reinforce my position and see what I can to marginalize them. Usually. I haven't worked
in a corporate setting in a long time, but it's not, I don't approach it the way an American would
like, I'm glad you came and talked to me. Now I probably would because it's going to be a friend.
So you attribute that to the Russian I'm bringing as opposed to you have deep
psychological issues. I think there's a synonymous.
Would you think differently maybe a few years ago?
I don't know. I think you lost me at the, because you kind of said that
that you're kind of implying you have a deep distrust of the world. Like the world does.
I think the default setting would be distrust. Yeah.
But I would put it differently is I almost ignore the rest of the other one, even acknowledge it.
I just savor, I save my love and trust for the small circle of people.
I agree. But when that person is being confrontational or as they perceive it as being open,
now there's a situation. How do you, how would you handle that?
Like, like a cold wind blows. He's just kind of like, yeah, but it's not like this is an
opportunity for us to work out our differences. It's a cold wind. It's not a hug. That's my point.
Americans think it's a hug. You're so suspicious. What it really is is a cold wind.
I'm so inhumane. It's not something to be scared of. It's a cold wind. It's not in person.
But it's great. But it's not a source of like, I'm not suspicious of,
like I'm not anxious, I would say, or like living in fear of the rest of the world.
But you're, oh, I agree. But you're not receptive to that person.
Right. That's all I'm saying. And they are. Got it. So speaking of which, let's talk about love.
Yes. Which requires to be receptive of the world. Yes. Of strangers. I agree.
How do we put more love out there in the world, especially on the internet?
One mechanism I have found to prove increased love, and that's a word that has many meanings and is,
you know, used in a very intense sense and is used in a very loose sense.
Can you try to define love? Sure. Love is a strong sense of attraction toward
a another person, entity or place that causes one to tend to react in a disproportionately
positive manner. That's off the top of my head. Disproportionately. Yes. So for example, if you
Why not proportionately? Because like, if you're someone's about to who you love is about to get
harmed, you're moving heaven and earth to make sure or like a book you love, you know, like,
I love this book, like you're going through the fire to try to save it. Whereas if it's a book,
you really like, it's like, oh, I've got another one. I don't, you know, and a book's kind of a
loose example. But so you're going with the love that's like you're saving for just a few people,
almost like romantically, like love for a close family. But what about just love to even the
broader like the kind of love you can put out to people on the internet, which is like just kindness.
Sure. I would say in that case, it's important to make them feel seen and validated.
And I try to do this when people who I have come to know on the internet, and there's a lot,
I try to do that as much as possible, because I don't think it's valid how on social media,
and I do this a lot myself, but not towards everyone. It's just there to be aggressive
and antagonistic. You should be antagonistic towards bad people. And that's fine. But at
the same time, there's lots of great people. And especially with my audience, and I would
bet disproportionately with yours, there's a lots of people who are because of their
psychology and intelligence are going to be more and more isolated socially than they should.
And if I, and I've heard from many of them, and if I'm the person who makes them feel,
oh, I'm not crazy, it's everyone else around me who is just basic. The fact that I can be
that person, which I didn't have at their age to me is incredibly reaffirming.
You mean that source of love? But I mean, love in the sense of like, you know,
you care about this person and you want good things for them, not in a kind of romantic way.
But I mean, you're using it in a broad sense now. Yeah. But you're also a person who kind of,
I mean, attacks the power structures in the world by mocking them. Yes. Effectively. Yes. And
love, I would say, requires you to be non witty and simple and fragile, which I see it as like
the opposite of what trolls do. Trolls are, if I, if there is someone coming after what I love,
there's two mechanisms, right? At least two. I go up and I'm fighting them. And in which case,
you bring in, if you are getting hurt in a knife fight, even if you win the knife fight,
or if you disarm them and you preclude the possibility of a fight and you drive them off
or render them powerless, you can, you keep your person intact as yourself and you also protect
your values. So how do you render them powerless? As you just said, by mocking them, one of the
most effective mechanism for those in power, we're much closer to brave new world than 1984.
The people who are dominant and in power aren't there because of the threat of, you know, the
Gulag or prison. They're there because of social pressures. Look at the masks. I was on the subway
not that long ago in New York City. No one cared who I was until I put out the mask. I was in the
subway that long in New York City. They would, and I put this on my Instagram. I've told this story
before. There was an Asian dude in his early 30s. He was like in Western clothes. It's not like he
had a rickshaw or something. An older man in his 50s stood up over him on the subway, screamed at him,
said, go back where you came from. You're disgusting. I'm going to get sick. If you think
this guy is a vector of disease, which is your prerogative, why are you coming close to him?
Why are you getting in his face? And what was the rate? Sorry. So it was because he was Asian?
It was both. It was the not having a mask gave him the permission to act like a despicable,
aggressive person toward him, right? And the point being a lot of these mechanisms for social control
are outsourced to low quality people because this is their one chance to assert dominance and status
over somebody else. So the best way to diffuse that isn't with weaponry or fighting. It's through
mockery because all of a sudden their claims to authority are effectively destroyed.
So let me push back on that. What about fighting that with love, with patience and kindness towards
them? I don't think kindness is, I think that would be a mismatch and inappropriate.
Their Superman is Batman. Okay. And Superman's job is to help the good people and Batman's
job is to hurt the bad people. And I will always be on the Batman side than the Superman side.
Both work silly tight costumes. One has pointy ears. Both are ridiculous. So it's a billionaire
who gets, you know, he's swimming in trim. Which one is the bad man? Okay. I'm under educated
on the superhero movies. I apologize. Okay. But you're just saying you, your predisposition is
to be on the Batman side is to fighting the bad guys. Yeah. And it's what I'm good at.
That's what you're good at. But just to play devil's advocate, or actually, in this case,
I am the devil because it's what I usually do. Watch the devil. You're the angel's advocate.
Exactly. I'm to be the angel advocate. Yeah. It's like, I feel like mockery is a path towards
escalation of conflict. Yes. In many ways. Yes. So you're not, I mean, it's kind of like guerrilla
warfare. I mean, you're not going to win. I am winning. We're all winning. We're winning
on a daily. This is my next book. We're winning. We've won before. I'm not joking.
The topic of the next book. Yes, is the white pill. The white pill.
Is that we're going to, we are winning. The most horrible people are being rendered into laughing
stocks on a daily basis social media. This is a glorious thing. I just so disagree with you.
I disagree with you because there's side effects that are very destructive. It feels like you're
winning, but we're completely destroying the possibility of having like a cohesive society.
That's called oncology. What's that mean? Curing cancer. Your concept of a cohesive
society is in fact a society based on oppression and not allowing individuals to live their
personal freedom. Oh, so you're your utopian view of the world. You're the utopian. You're
saying cohesive society. I'm saying, I don't need that. I'm saying there's going to be conflict.
Right. There's going to be conflict. You and I are disagreeing right now. That's not cohesive.
Doesn't mean we like each other less. Doesn't mean we respect each other less. Cohesive doesn't,
it's just a euphemism for like everyone submitting to what I want.
No. I mean, cohesive could be that. It could be like enforced with violence, all that kind of
stuff, sort of the libertarian view of the world, but it could just be being respectful and kind of
each other and kind towards each other and loving towards each other. I mean, that's what I mean
by cohesive. So when people say free, it's funny. Like freedom is a funny thing because freedom could
be painful to a lot of people. It's all matters how you define it, how you implement it, how it
actually looks like. Sure. And I'm just saying it feels like the mockery of the powerful leads to
further and further the divisions. It's like the, it's turning life into a game to where
it's always you're creating these different little tribes and groups and you're constantly
fighting the groups that become a little bit more powerful by undercutting them through
guerrilla warfare kind of thing. And that's what the internet becomes is everyone's just mocking
each other and then certain groups become more and more powerful. And then they start fighting
each other into basically, they form groups of ideologies and they start fighting each other
in the internet. Where the result is, it doesn't feel like the common humanities highlighted. It
doesn't feel like that's a path of progress. Now, like when I say cohesive, I don't mean like
everybody has to be, you know, enforcing equality, all those kinds of ideas. I just mean like
not being so divisive. That's like, so it's going back to the original question of like,
how do we put more love out in the world than the internet? I want divisiveness. Oh, you see,
you think that this is, that's very interesting. It's the goal. So you started this conversation
where you're talking about you have love for that small group. I think we both would agree to have a
bigger group be better, especially if that love comes from a sincere place. I think our country
specifically, I wrote an article about this four years ago that it's time to disunite the states
and to secede. This country has been held together with at least two separate cultures, with dumb
tax and string for over 20 years. There's an enormous amount of contempt from one group toward
another. This contempt comes from a sincere place. They do not share each other's values.
There's absolutely no reason, just like any unhealthy relationship, where you can't say,
you know what, it's not working out. I want to go my own way and live my happiness and I genuinely
want you to go your way, live your happiness. If I'm wrong, prove you wrong. I'll learn from you
and take lessons and vice versa. But the fact that we all have to be in the same house together
is not coherent and that's not love. That is the path towards friction and tension and conflict.
Do you think there is concrete groups? Is it as simple as the two groups of blue and red?
No, it's also very fluid because you and I are allied as Jewish people, as Russians, as males,
as podcasters. You're an academic, I'm not. There's different, but we each are a Venn diagram,
even within ourselves. I can talk to you about politics and then we can talk about Russia stuff
and then you could talk about your work, which I don't know anything about, so that would be
where you're way up here and way down here. So there's lots, every relationship with just between
individuals, it's very dynamic. So how do we succeed? Like how do we form individual states
where there's a little bit more cohesion? Sure, and voluntary cohesion. So the first step
is to eliminate the concept of political authority as legitimate and to denigrate and humiliate those
who would put themselves in a position in which they are there to tell you how to live your life
from any semblance of validity. And that's starting to happen. If you look at what they had
with the lockdowns, Cuomo in De Blasio, New York, I was tired a couple weeks ago and I said to my
friend, oh, just click, maybe I have COVID. And he goes, it's not possible, like what do you mean?
And he goes, we haven't had any deaths in like two months and there's only like 100 cases a day
for like two months. And I go, you're exaggerating because everything was still closed. And I looked
at the numbers and he wasn't exaggerating. And there's no greater American dream to me
than an immigrant family comes to the States, forms their own little business,
maybe mom's a good cook is a restaurant, dry cleaner, fruit stand. And those people aren't
going to have a lot of money. Those are the first ones who lost their companies because of these
lockdowns. Cuomo, who's the governor of New York, opened up the gyms. He said, you're clear to open
up. De Blasio said, and we don't have enough inspectors, you're going to have to wait another
couple of weeks. To regard that as anything other than literally criminal is something that I
am having a hard and hard of time wrapping my head around.
You said, I mean, that's something I'm deeply worried about as well, which is like
thousands, it's actually millions of dreams being crushed that American American dream of starting
a business of running a business. What about all the young people who you and I have in our audiences
who are socially isolated at best, and now they can't leave their homes?
Isolation and ostracism are things that are very well studied in psychology. These have extreme
consequences. I read a book called ostracism. And this wasn't scientific, but basically the
author was a psychiatrist or a college whatever. And he had one of his colleagues, they didn't
experiment. Let's for a week, you ostracize me completely. We know it's an, and he goes,
even knowing it's the experiment, the fact that he wouldn't make eye contact with me and the fact
that he ignored me had an extreme emotional impact on me. Knowing full well, this is purely for
experimental purposes. Now you multiply that by all these, the suicide, the number of kids who
think about suicide was through the roof during all this. And my point is until these people, it's
going to have a pretty quick 2024, that's where we're going to have to start having conversations
about what personal consequences have to be done for these people, because until then they're going
to do the same thing. So you think there's going to be society wide consequences of this that we're
going to see like ripple effects because of the social isolation? I know, I mean, we also need
to talk about consequences of Cuomo and de Blasio. Because if politicians respond to incentives and
the incentives are there for them to be extremely conservative. Because if you have to choose,
as Cuomo said in a press conference, between a thousand people dying and a thousand people
losing their business, it's not a hard choice. And he's right. But at a certain point, it's like,
all right, you're losing both, you're losing, not losing, you're making these decisions and not
having consequences for it. And you're going to do it again the next time. So we need to make
sure you're a little scared. Okay. And I don't know what that would mean. But you're laying
this problem, this, this incompetence. I don't think it's incompetence. I think it's very
competent. I think they're just their job. Yes. But what, but you're laying it not at the hands
of the individuals, but the structure of the of government. It's both. Yes. How would we deal with
it better without centralized control? Well, we didn't really have centralized control because
every country and every state handled it in a different mechanism. But a city has centralized
control. Just, yeah, right. No, that's not true. So Cuomo and De Blasio, they had a lot of
disagreements over this over the months. And this was actually a source of great interest and tension.
De Blasio wanted, at one point was talking about quarantining people in their homes. Cuomo was
like, you're crazy. Same thing with the schools, same thing with the gyms. And there were other
such examples. But the point being, this was an emergency. This is World War One. I talked about
this on Tim Pool's show. It was very dangerous because it gave a lot of evil people some very
useful information about what the country put up with and what they can get away with under
wartime. And this set the model for things like the New Deal and the other things of that nature.
It is undeniable, you're a scientist, so you understand this perfectly well,
that this lockdown gave some very nefarious people some very valid data about how much people would
put up with under pressures from the state. So fundamentally, what is the problem with the
state that existence? Okay, well, but to play Angel's advocate again, you know, government
is the people. Come on. Do you really think this? As best I think it's possible to have
representation. Can you imagine if you have an attorney, you're like, oh, you can't have
the attorney you want. You're gonna have this guy who you absolutely hate, who you share no
values with. Why? Because he drives, I mean, leaders, political leaders, and political
representation drive the discourse. Like we, you know, the majority of people voted for him or
whatever, however, however you define that. And now we get to have a discussion. Well,
was this the right choice? And then we get to make that choice again in four years and so on.
First of all, the fact that I have to be under the thumb of somebody for years makes no sense.
There's no other relationship that's like this, including a marriage. You can leave any other
relationship at any time. Number one, number two is it always impeach what they did that part of
it. I'm just saying that the mechanisms are flawed in many ways. Yeah. Right. And so that's
number one. Number two is it doesn't make sense that if I don't want someone to represent me,
that because that person is popular, that they are now in a position to. So having representation
and having citizenship based on geography is a prelandline technology in a post cell phone world.
There's no reason why I have to just because we're physically in between two oceans,
we all have to be represented by the same people. Whereas I can very easily have my
security be under someone and switch it as easily as cell phone providers.
So okay, but it doesn't have to be geographical. It can be ideas. Sure. I mean,
this country represents a certain set of ideas. Yes, it does. It started out geographically.
It still is geographic. It started off as ideas as well. But like there's it's it was
intricately. I mean, that's the way humans are. There's I mean, there was no internet.
So it was your geographically the same location and you sign a bunch of documents and then you
kind of debated and you wrote a bunch of stuff and then you agreed on it. Okay.
You understand that no one signed these documents and no one agreed to it,
as Lysander Spooner pointed out over 150 years ago. The constitution or the social contract,
if anything, is only binding to the signatories. And even then they're all long dead.
So it's this fallacy that somehow because I'm in a physical place, I have agreed,
even though I'm screaming through a face that I don't agree to be subordinate to
some imaginary invisible monster that was created 250 years ago. And this idea of like,
if you don't like it, you have to move. That's not what freedom means. Freedom means I do what I
want, not what you want. So if you don't like it, you move. Okay, just to put some, I don't like
words and terms. 1110, 1110. Yeah, exactly. Because that's what your language is.
It is. I'm translating it all in real time. But would you call the kind of ideas that
you're advocating for and we're talking about anarchy? Yes, anarchism, yes.
Okay, so let's get into it. Can you try to paint the utopia that an anarchist worldview dreams about?
The only people who describe anarchism as utopia are its critics. If I told you right now,
and I wish I could say this factually, that I have a cure for cancer that would not make us
utopia, that would still probably be expensive. We would still have many other diseases. However,
we would be fundamentally healthier, happier and better off all of us.
Then democracy. So I jumped back from the cancer.
No, then democracy or government. So it's only curing one major, major life threatening problem.
But in no sense is it a utopia. So what can we try to answer this question? Same question many
times, which is what exactly is the problem with democracy? The problem with democracy is that those
who need leaders are not qualified to choose them. Those who need leaders are not qualified
to choose them. That's the central problem with democracy. Not all of us need leaders.
What does it mean to need a leader? Are you saying like people who are actually
free thinkers don't need leaders kind of thing? Sure. That's a good way of working.
Okay, so do you acknowledge that there's some value in authority in different subjects? So what
that means is I don't mean authority, somebody who's in control of you. But you're doing the
definition switch. Yeah, I am. You're right. It's unfair. Okay, that was bad.
But that's what they do. That's their trick. And this is one of the useful things, by the way,
Lesley has told us sidebar. If people ask me for advice, I always tell them,
if you're going to raise your kids, raise them bilingual. Because I was trilingual by the time
I was six, and that teaches you to think in concepts. Whereas if you only know one language,
you fall for things like this, because using authority in the sense of a policeman,
and someone's authority in physics, it's the same word. Conceptually, they're extremely different.
But if you're only thinking in one language, your brain is going to equate the two. And that's
a trap that people who only speak one language have. For sure. But even if you know multiple
languages, you can still use the trick of using your words to your convenience to manipulate
the conversation. You weren't trying to do that, but you fell into that. I accidentally did it.
We all tend to do that if you only speak one language and think in one language.
But if, I guess let me rephrase it, are you against, do you acknowledge the value of offloading
your own effort about a particular thing to somebody else? Absolutely. Like an accountant,
a lawyer, a doctor, absolute, a chef, infinite. Isn't that ultimately what a democracy is?
No. Broadly defined. Like you're basically electing a bunch of authorities.
Using the word you in two senses. Using the word you, meaning me as an individual, not using you
as a mass. Yeah, as a mass, not you as an individual. Right. So I would absolutely want
someone to provide for my security. I would absolutely want someone to negotiate with me
for foreign powers or something like that. That does not mean it has to be predicated
and what lots of other people who I do not know, and if I do know them, probably would not respect,
think about. It's of no moral relevance to me. Nor are I to them.
Do you think this kind of, there could be a bunch of humans that behave kind of like ants
in a distributed way. There could be an emergent behavior in them that results in a stable society.
Like it's not the hope with anarchies, like without an overarching.
But ants, I mean, ants are the worst example here because ants have a very firm authority.
The queen. Yeah. And they're all, they're all drones. They're all clones of each other.
Yeah, but so if you forget the queen, their behavior, they're all, well, from your perspective,
from your human intelligence perspective, but from their perspective, I probably see
each other as a bunch of individuals. No, they don't. Ants are very big on altruism in the sense
of self sacrifice. They do not think the individual matters. They routinely kill themselves for the
sake of the hive in the community. But they, see, that's from the outside perspective, from
the individual perspective of the individual, they probably, they, they don't see it as altruism.
Right. But they, they, they view, and they're right because the ants life is very ephemeral and
cheap, that it's more important to continue this mass population that, that one individual ant
live. Like bees are another, even better example, the honeybee, when they sting, they only sting
once and they die. And they do it gladly because it's like, okay, this community is much more
important than me. And they're right. Yeah. Okay. So fine. Let's forget. I'm being pedantic,
but it's important, I think. I'm not just being pedantic for the sake of being pedantic. But there's
something beautiful that I won't argue about because I do, there's an interesting point there
about individualism of ants. I do think they're more individual. But let's, let's give your view
of ants that they're, it's, they're communists. Okay. Let's go with the communist view of ants.
Okay. Yeah. But there's still a beautiful emergent thing, which is like, they can function as a,
as a society and without, I would say, centralized control. It's another argument.
So is that the hope for anarchy? It's like, you just throw a bunch of people that voluntarily
want to be in the same place under the same set of ideas. And they kind of, like the doctors emerge,
the police officers emerge, the, the different necessary structures of a functional society
emerge. Do you know what the most beautiful example of anarchism is that is just beyond
beautiful when you stop to think about it? I'll say Twitter. I'm not, I'm not being tongue in
cheek. Okay. Language. There's infinite languages, language, the things that language can be used for
are, bring tears to people's eyes quite literally. It's also used for basic things. No one is forcing
us, we speak two languages each, at least no one's forcing us to use English. No one's forcing us to
use this dialect of English. It's a way and, and despite there being so many different languages,
lingua franca emerge, you know, people, the language of everyone is Latin. Even in North
Korea, they refer to the fish and the different animals by the Latin scientific, no one decided
that, sure, there's an organization that sets a binomial nomenclature, but there's no gun to
anyone's head referring to Seamoth as a Pegasus species. And when you think about how amazing
language is, and some in other contexts would say like, well, you, you need to have a world
government and they're deciding which is the verbs and you have to have an official definition
and an official dictionary. And none of that's happened. And I think anyone, even if they don't
agree with my politics or my worldview, cannot deny that the creation of language is one of
humanity's most miraculous, beautiful achievements. Absolutely. So there, there you go. There's one
system where a kind of anarchy can result in, in beauty, stability, like sufficient stability,
and yet dynamic flexibility to adjust to them and so on. And the internet helps it. You get
something, something like urban dictionary, which starts creating absurd, both humor and
wit. But also language and syntax and jargon, immediately you size people up. If you use,
if you say vertebral, I know you're a doctor, because that's how they pronounce it, the spinal
column. I'm sure in your field, there's certain jargon right away. You can know if this person's
one of us or not. I mean, it's infinite. I mean, I don't need to tell you anyone.
It's emojis too. Yes. There's so much there to study with language. It's fascinating.
But do you think this applies to human life, the meat space, the physical space? Yes. So these,
there's that kind of beauty can emerge without, without writing stuff on paper, without laws.
You could have rules. You don't need, you don't have to be laws. So enforced by violence. Like
that's what, what's a law? A law is something that is unchosen. A rule is something, if I go to my
pool, I sign up to your member pool on the wall, there's certain things. It's like, you know,
certain number of people in the pool, no peeing in here. Good luck enforcing that one. And so on
and so forth. Well, that's the problem. Aren't you afraid that people are going to pee in the pool?
That's not as my biggest concern is mass incarceration, as the fact that the police
can steal more money than burglars can. The fact that innocent people can be killed with no
consequences. The fact that war can be waged and with no consequences for those who waged it.
The fact that so many men and women are being murdered overseas and here,
and the people who are guiding these are regarded as heroic.
So you think there might, that in an anarchist system, there's a possibility of having less
wars and less, what would you say, corruption and less abuse of power?
Let's talk, yes, and let's talk about corruption because, and I made this point on
Rogan, you and I, again, this is the Russian background, we realize that when it comes to
corruption, American is very naive. Corruption, they think is, oh, I got my brother a job and
he's getting money on the table. That's not, when we're talking about like state corruption,
things that are done in totalitarian states, and even to some extent America, like Jeffrey
Epstein, Gillian Maxwell, things that Stalin did, things that Hitler did. You know, when the CIA
was torturing people at Gitmo, they had to borrow KGB manuals because they didn't know
how to torture correctly because they never thought of these things. We, it's very hard for us to
get into the mindset of someone who's like a child predator, someone who, let me give you
an example from my forthcoming book, there was a guy who was the head of Ukraine in the 30s,
I forget his name. Now these old Soviets, they were tough. I mean, they pride, Stalin means
steel. You know, they pride themselves and their cruelty and how strong they were. And this was the purge. You know, Stalin is trying to, you know,
killing lots of people left and right. And his henchmen, Beria, had the quote, find me the man,
I'll find you the crime. You know, they would accuse someone and they would torture him
until he talked and confessed. And then he had to turn people in. And they took this guy in,
like beginning the year, I think it's 36, 38, he was head of Ukraine. By May, he's arrested.
And they take him to the Ljublanka, the basement in the Red Square where they're torturing people.
And they put, they did the works on him. And he was a good Soviet and he stood up.
Who knows what they did to him? He didn't talk. So they said, okay, one moment,
they brought his teenage daughter in, raped her in front of him. He talked. So when we talk about
corruption, we would never in a million years think of this. That's not how our minds work.
So when you're talking about states and people where you don't have
ease of exit, where you are forced to be under the auspices of an organization creating a monopoly,
that leads to, in extreme cases, but in not as extreme cases, really nefarious outcomes.
Whereas if you have the option to leave as a client or customer, that would have a strongly
limiting effect on how a business and what it can get away with.
But don't you think maybe, I don't know who the right example is, whether it's Stalin,
I think Hitler might be the better example of, don't you think, or Jeffrey Epstein perhaps,
don't you think people who are evil will find ways to manipulate human nature to attain power,
no matter the system? Yes. And like the corollary question is, do you think those
people can get more power in the democracy, when there's a government already in place?
It's easily, they get more power, more dangerous to have a government in place. First of all,
sociopaths don't know for their charm and for their warmth. Here's the two situations.
In a free society, I'm a sociopath, I'm an evil person, I'm the head of Macy's.
In a state society, I'm an evil person, I'm a sociopath, I'm the head of the US government.
Which of these are you more concerned with? It's like night and day. So you would have far more
decentralized military, you would have far more decentralized security forces, and they would
be much more subject to feedback from the market. If you have an issue with Macy's or any store with
a sweater, look at that transaction. If you have an issue with the state, hiring a lawyer costs
more than a surgeon. To even access the mechanism for dispute is going to be exorbitant and price
poor people at the market for conflict resolution immediately. So right away, you have something
that's extremely regressive. And even though this is touted as some great equalizer, it's
quite the opposite. So in current society, there's deep suspicion of governments and states.
Well, just your example of Macy's, I mean, don't you think a Hitler could rise to be at the top
of social network like Twitter and Facebook? Okay, let's suppose Hitler ran Twitter. Okay,
let's take this thought experiment seriously. Literally, what could he do? So all the only
tweets are going to be about how much the Jews suck, right? Okay, fine. Okay, all the cool people
are leaving. There could be some compelling, like you said, evil people are charming. There could
be some compelling narratives that could be we've conspiracy theories, untruths, that could be spread
like propaganda. Every criticism of anarchism is in fact a description of all the strongest
criticism of anarchism are in fact description of the status quo. Your concern is under anarchism,
propaganda would spread and people would be taught the wrong ideas, unlike the status quo.
That's not even a criticism of anarchism. I'm not actually criticizing. It's an open question of,
it's an open question of in which system will human nature thrive, be able to thrive more?
And in which system would the evils that arise in human nature would be more easily suppressible?
That's the open question. It's a scientific experiment, and I'm asking only from my perspective
of the fact that we've tried democracy quite a bit recently, and I don't, maybe you can correct
me, we haven't yet seriously tried anarchy in a large scale. Well, we don't need to try to,
so anarchy isn't like a country, right? It's like, it's like saying, well, if anarchy works,
how come we've never had an anarchist government, right? So anarchism is a relationship and language
is an example of this. It's a worldwide anarchic system. You and I have an anarchist relationship.
There's almost no circumstances we'd be calling the police on each other.
I mean, it's, I'm asking the same question in a bunch of different directions out of,
born out of my curiosity, is why is anarchy going to be better at preventing the darker
sides of human nature, which presumably your criticism of government.
Oh, because it's because of decentralization. So the darker side of human nature is an extreme
concern. Anyone who says it's going to go away is absurd and fallacious. I think that's a nonstarter
when people say that everyone's going to be good. Human beings are basically animals. We're capable
of great beauty and kindness. We're capable of just complete, cruel, and what we would call inhumanity,
but we see it on a daily basis even today. And what's interesting is the corporate press won't
even tell you the darkest aspects because that's too upsetting to people. So they'll tell you about
atrocities and horrors, but only to a point. And then when you actually do the homework,
you're like, oh, it's so much worse than, like that thing about Stalin, right? So we know in a
broad sense that Stalin was a dictator. We know that he killed a lot of people, but it takes work
to learn about the Holodomor. It takes work to learn about what those literal tortures were,
and that this is the person who later, FDR and Harry Truman were shaking hands with
and taking photos with and was being sold to us as Uncle Joe. He's just like you and me.
So when you have a decentralized information network, as opposed to having three media networks,
it is a lot easier for information that doesn't fit what would be the corporate American narrative
to reach the populations. And it would be more effective for democracy,
because they're in a much better position to be informed. Now, you're right. It also means,
well, if everyone has a mic, that means every crazy person, and with their wacky views.
And at a certain point, yeah, it has to become, then there's another level, which is then the
people have to be self enforcing. And you see that in social media all the time when someone
says this, the other person jumps in. You think, but isn't social media a good example of this?
So you think ultimately, without centralized control, you can have stability? Like,
what about the mob outrage and the mob rule, the power of the mobs that emerge?
The power of the mob is very serious concern. Gustav Le Bon wrote a book in the 1890s called
The Crowd. And this was one of the most important books I've written, because it influenced both
Mussolini and Hitler and Stalin, and they all talked about it. And he made the point that under
crowd psychology, human lynching is another example of this. None of those individuals,
or very few would ever dream of doing these acts. But when they're all together, and you lose that
sense of self, you become the ant, and you lose that sense of individually, you're capable of
doing things that like in another context, you'd be like, I should kill myself. I'm a monster.
So you're worried about that, but like, isn't the mob, doesn't the mob have more power under
anarchy? No, the mob has much less power and anarchy because under anarchism, every individual
is fully empowered. You wouldn't have gun restrictions. You would have people creating
communities based on shared values. They'd be much more collegial. They'd be much more kind,
as opposed to when you're forcing people to be together in a polity, when they don't have things
in common, that is like having a bad roommate. If you're forced to liquid jails, if you're forced
to be in locked in a room with someone, even if you at first like them, after a while you're
going to start to hate them, and that leads to very nefarious consequences. So as an anarchist,
what are you doing in a society like this? Thrive. I think I'm doing okay.
I mean, there's an election coming up. As you talk, you're welcome is one of the
15 shows that you host. It's down to one. Okay, it's down to one. But I'm a big fan.
You talk about libertarianism a little bit. I mean, is there some practical
political direction in terms of we as a society should go? I don't mean we as a nation. I mean,
we as a collective of people should go to make a better world from an anarchist point of view.
Sure. I think politics is the enemy. I need to find politics.
The state, the government. So anything that lessens its sway on people, anything that
delegitimizes it is good. I read an article a few years ago about how wonderful it is that
Trump is regarded as such a buffoon because it's very, very useful to have a commander in chief
who's regarded as a clown because it's going to take a lot to get him to convince your kids to
go overseas and start killing people and making widows and orphans, as well as those kids coming
home in caskets. Whereas if someone is regarded with prestige and they're like, oh, we need to send
your kid overseas. Oh, absolutely. I mean, this guy's great. So that is a very healthy thing
where people are skeptical of the state. But there's a lot of people that regard him as
one of the greatest leaders we've ever had. Yeah. Dinesh D'Souza. He's another Lincoln.
I, when you talk shit about Trump or talk shit about Biden, I think I'm trying to find a line to
walk where they don't immediately put you into the, this person has Trump derangement syndrome or
they have the other, the alternative to that. I'm more than happy when people are preemptively
dismissing me because they don't have to waste time engaging with them because those people
we have no use to me. When I was on Tim Poole recently, Tim Poole show, Tim Poole is known for
his little like hat. I got a propeller beanie motorized and it was just spinning the whole
two hours, 1950s thing. The point being, I wore it because there's lots of people who would say,
I can't take seriously someone who wears a hat like that. And my point being, if you are the kind
of person who takes your cues based on someone's wardrobe, as opposed to the content of your ideas,
you have no use to me as an ally. So I'd be more than happy. You preemptively abort,
rather than waste our breath. This is the deep, this is a very, very deep thing that you and I
disagree on, which is this is goes to the trolling versus the love is, I believe that person
instinctually dismisses you on the very basic surface level. Yes. But deep down, there actually,
there is a wealth of a human being that seeks the connection to seeks to understand deeply
to connect with other humans that we should speak to. Yeah, you and I completely disagree.
So you're saying, I'm saying there's no mind there, literally. Okay. So let's, I, I naturally
think the majority, so I naturally think the majority of people are, have the capacity to be
thoughtful, intelligent, and, you know, learn about ideas, ideas that they instinctually based on
their own likes, current inner circle, disagree with and learn to understand, to empathize with
the other we're like, I, and in the current climate, there's a divisiveness that discourages that.
And that's where I see the value of love, of, of encouraging people to, to strip away that surface
instinctual response based on the thing they've been taught, based on the things they listen to,
to actually think deeply. Have you ever had gone to CVS or Dwayne Reed, and your bill,
how much you owe them is $6. And you give them a $10 bill in a single and watch the look on their
face. You watch them void their bowels and panic, because you've given them $11 on a $6 bill.
This is not a mind capable or interested in thoughts and ideas and learning.
No, you're talking about the first moment of a first moment where there's an opportunity to think.
They are desperate to avoid it. No, they're just, it's an incapable of it.
I just, they have the same exact experiences I have every single day when I know it's time
for me to go out on a run of five miles or six miles or 10 miles, I'm desperate to avoid it.
And at the same time, I know I have the capacity to do it. And I'm deeply fulfilled when I do
do it, when I do overcome that challenge. You are one of the great minds of our generation.
You are telling me that any of these people can do anything close to the work you do? Not in
artificial intelligence, but in the ability to be compassionate towards other people's ideas,
like understand them enough to be able... Passion requires a certain baseline of intelligence,
because you have to perceive other people as being different, but of value.
Yeah, exactly. That's a sophisticated mindset.
I think most people are capable of it. You don't think so?
No, and nor are they interested in it.
But in that kind of, if you don't believe they're capable of it, how can anarchy be stable?
If you have a farm, there's one farmer and 50 cows, it's very stable.
You're just not, you're not asking the cows where to farm things.
Yeah, but the cows aren't intelligent enough to do damage.
Cows, cows certainly could do a lot of damage. They could trample things, they could attack you.
Cows are like, how much do they weigh? Like 4,000 pounds?
Can you connect the analogy then, because like...
Sure, you can't expect that...
Yeah.
Saying a cow is a cow isn't a slur. It's not saying you hate cows, cows, or even...
Let's say, the example I always use with good reason is dogs, okay?
I always say to study how human beings operate, watch Caesar Milan,
because human beings and dogs have coevolved.
Our minds have both evolved in parallel tracks to communicate with each other.
Dogs can be vicious. Dogs, for the most part, are great, wonderful,
but you can't expect the dog to understand certain concepts.
It's not an incident...
Now, most people are offended. Are you saying, I look like a dog?
If you're a dog person like I am, this is actually a huge compliment.
Most dogs are better than most people.
But to get the idea that this is something that is basically your peer is nonsensical.
Now, of course, this sounds arrogant and elitist and so on and so forth,
and I'm perfectly happy with that, but it is very hard to persuade me or anyone
that if you walk... George Carlin has that joke, think how smart the average person is,
then realize 50% of people are dumber than that.
If you walk around and see who's out there, these people are very kind.
They are of value. They deserve to be treated with respect.
They deserve to be secure in their person. They deserve to feel safe and to have love,
but the expectation that they should have any sort of semblance of power over me or my life
is as nonsensical as asking Lassie to be my accountant.
But that goes to power, not to the ability, the capacity to be empathetic,
compassionate, intelligent. If I were to try to prove you wrong, what would you be impressed by
about society? How would I show it to you?
That's a good question. How would you show it to me? Because I think something has to be
falsifiable if we're going to make a claim, right? So what would it...
Because we've both made claims that aren't a kind of our own interpretation based on
our interaction. Like when I open Twitter, everyone seems to say...
Why do you only follow one person? Who do you follow? Who's the one person you follow?
Stoic Emperor. I follow a lot of people. I have a script that...
Of course you do. I have a robot.
I have an entire interface. So I think Twitter is really...
This is real love. It's not ironic love. I love watching it, and I'm sure you do too.
I love watching a quality of mind at work, because when someone has a quality of mind,
they're often not self aware. I catch this on myself of how it operates.
And then when other people see it, they're like, oh my god, this is so beautiful,
because there's such an innocence to it. But when I open Twitter,
energize, there's a lot of love on Twitter. People say like...
I love Twitter. I agree. You don't think I have a lot of love on Twitter?
My fans pay my rent. I mean, I don't know your experience of Twitter,
but when I look at your... Which is a fundamentally different thing.
I'm saying my experience from the... So maybe you can tell me what your experience is like
as a human. So when I observe your Twitter, I think... I wouldn't call it love. I would call it fun.
And because of that, that's a different kind of... Love emerges from that,
because people kind of learn that we're having... This is like game night.
Like, we can talk shit a little bit. You can even pull in...
You can make fun of people. You can have the crazy uncle come over that
is a huge Trump supporter or somebody who hates Trump, and you can have a little fun.
Again, it's a different kind of thing. I wouldn't be able to...
You're the host of game night? Yes, yes.
So I wouldn't be able to host that kind of game night? I imagine you're programming your robots
and you're asking what is fun and it just starts sparking. Exactly.
What is fun? So the robots in my life that survive are the ones that don't...
That survive that whole programming process. So they're kind of like...
They're kind of like the idiot from just to ask you. They're very simple minded robots.
Fun is moving a can from one table to another.
That's game night for our kin. You know what I'm on my quotes is,
and I think about this every day, and I mean it with every fiber of my being.
We're born knowing that life is a magical adventure and it takes them years to train
us to think otherwise. And I think that Willy Wonka approach, it's a very Kamu approach.
It's something I believe with every fiber of my being. I try to spread that as much as possible.
I think it is very sad. I'm not being sarcastic. It comes off as condescending. I mean it at face
value. It's very sad how many people are not receptive to that. And I think a lot of those
function how they were raised. And I could have very easily with my upbringing have not
maintained that perspective. And there's a lot of... I have a lot of friends in recovery, like AA,
and they have an expression, not my circus, not my monkeys. That you can't really take on other
people's problems on your own. At a certain point, they have to do the work themselves,
because you can only do so much externally. And there are a lot of very damaged people out there.
And there are damaged people who revel in being damaged. And they are damaged people who desperately,
desperately, desperately want to be well, who desperately want to be happy, who desperately
want to find joy. So if I can be the one, and as arrogant as this sounds, I'll own it, who does
give them that fun. And to tell them, it doesn't have to be like you thought. It could be, it's
going to hurt, it's going to suck, but it's still a magical adventure and you're going to be okay,
because you've been through worse. If that could be my message, I would own it all day long.
And so what does adventure look like for you? Because I mean, it actually boils down to,
I still disagree with you. I think trolling can be and very often is destructive for society.
Yes, I want to destroy society. That is the goal. I want to help many people.
Unironically, okay. Unironically, yes.
What do I do with that? Okay, so.
Whatever you want. Do with that will is the hall of the law.
Like I just want to, so you're hosting game night and I just want to play monopoly. I want to play,
what's the risk? Okay, I want to play these games.
And you're saying. Those are aggressive games.
Yeah, I was trying to think of a friendlier game, but they're all kind of aggressive.
Battle ship, access and allies, you know, fun stuff.
But like, so that's an adventure, but you're saying that we want to destroy everything,
even like the rules of those games are not like.
You voluntarily agree to those rules. The point is, if someone comes in who's not,
who no one invited to game night and are telling you, no, when you play monopoly,
you have to get money when you land in free parking or you don't.
It's like, who are you? We're having our own fun and you smell.
I don't know, but there's an aggressive.
There's an aggression. Let me, let me speak to that, which I think you're picking up on.
I had a friend named Martha, Marcia, excuse me.
She ran something called cuddle parties, which people laughed at about a lot back in the day.
And the premise of the cuddle parties, everyone got together and cuddled, right?
And it's like, aha, then you stop to think about and you realize physical context is extremely
important and a lot of people don't have it. And if this is a mechanism of people getting that,
it actually is going to have profound positive psychological consequences.
So after she explained it, I'm like, okay, we laughed at this because it's weird.
And now that I think about it, this is wonderful.
And I asked her about like, like the tough question go, what if guys get turned on?
And on their website, it's even has a rule, like do not fear the erection, right?
Because it's going to be a natural consequence of physical proximity.
And the point she goes, she said this, I think about this all the time.
People will take as much space as you let them.
It is incumbent on each of us to set our own boundaries.
We all have to learn when to say no, you're making me uncomfortable.
If someone doesn't respect your right to have your boundary to be uncomfortable,
this person is not your friend.
Now they can say, I don't understand.
Like, why is this okay? Why is that not?
Let me know you better so I'm respectful of you.
But if they roll their eyes and they're like, get over, I'm going to do what I want.
This person is not interested in knowing you as a human being.
Okay.
And that is the aggression.
It is, you have to draw those lines.
I mean, but that's a very positive way of phrasing that aggression.
I'm a very positive person.
But the trolling, there's a destructive thing to it.
Yes.
That hurts others.
But it's not bad people.
I only troll as a reaction or towards those in power.
Okay.
So maybe let's talk about trolling a little bit because
trolling, when it can, maybe you can correct me, but I've seen it become a game for people
that's enjoyable in itself.
I disagree with that.
That's not a good thing.
If you are there just to hurt innocent people, you are a horrible human being.
But doesn't trolling too easily become that?
I don't know about easily.
Let me give you an example of where trolling came from.
The original troll was Andy Kaufman.
He was on the show Taxi.
He was a performance artist, not a standard comedian.
And this is a quintessential example of trolling.
He had a character where he was basically like a lounge singer.
He had these glasses on and just a terrible singer and so on and so forth.
And he denied it was him.
And he came out and I'm blanking on the guy's name.
I can't believe it.
Tony Clifton.
Wow.
He came out in the audience and he goes, you know, my wife died a few years ago.
Every time I look at my daughter, Sarah's eyes, I can see my wife, Sarah, come out here,
let's do a duet.
And Sarah was like 11, sits on his lap, they start singing duet.
Her voice cracks, he smacks her across the face.
What the hell are you doing?
You're making ass on me in front of these people.
There, there, she starts crying.
The audience is booing and he goes, don't boo her, you're just going to make her cry more.
Now it ends, this wasn't his daughter, it wasn't even child, it was an actress.
This was all set up.
He's exploiting their love of children in order to force them to be performers.
That is trolling.
No one is actually getting hurt.
It's a humorous, though twisted exchange.
If you go online looking for weak people and you are there to denigrate them just for them
being weak or in some way inferior to you, that is the wrong approach.
I am best on the counter punch.
A lot of times people come to me and they'll be like, I hope you die.
You're ugly, you're disgusting.
And there's this great quote from Billy Idol, which I'm going to mangle where he's something
effective.
I love it when people are rude to me, then I can stop pretending to be nice.
Then you start fights.
Now it's a chance for me to finish it and make an example of this person.
But that's very, very different from, I'm going to go around and humiliate people for
the sake of doing it, in my view.
And I can see how one would lead to the other.
Yeah.
But that's my fundamental concern with it.
So my dream is to put, use technology, create platforms that increase the amount of love
in the world.
And to me trolling is doing the opposite.
So like Andy Kaufman is brilliant.
So I love, obviously, it sounds like I'm a robot saying, I love humor.
Okay.
Humor is good.
One, one, one, zero, one, one, one, one.
But like it's, I just see like 4chan.
I see that you can often see that humor quickly turned.
Yeah.
Because what happens is a lot of low status people, this is their one mechanism through
sadism to feel empowered.
And then they can hide behind, well, I'm just joking.
Yeah.
Like there's this dark thing.
That's not acceptable.
There's a dark LOL that people do.
Which is like, they'll say like the shittiest thing and then do LOL after.
Like as if, I don't even know, like what is happening in the dark mind of yours?
Because they are feeling powerless in their lives.
Right.
And they see someone who they perceive as higher status or more powerful than them or
even not appear and they, through their words, cause a reaction in this person.
So they feel like they are in a very literal sense making a difference on earth and they
matter in a very dark way.
It's disturbing.
This is not, I mean, it's unfortunate that that term trolling is used for that as opposed
to what Andy Kaufman does as opposed to what I do.
It's, it really is a sinister thing and it's something I'm not at all a fan of.
How do we, how do we fight that?
So like a neighboring concept of that is conspiracy theories, which is.
I don't think they're neighboring at all.
Let me, let me give a sort of.
Naive perspective, maybe you can educate me on this from my perspective, conspiracy theories
are these constructs of ideas that go deeper and deeper and deeper into creating worlds
where there's powerful pedophiles, controlling things like these very sophisticated models
of the world that in part might be true, but in large part, I would say our, our figments
of imagination that become really useful constructs and self enforcing, self enforcing
for then feeding like empowering the trolls to attack the powerful, the conventionally powerful.
I don't think that that's a function of conspiracy theories.
Now let's talk about conspiracy theories because one of my quotes is you take one red
pill, not the whole bottle, this concept that everything in life is at the function of a
small cadre of individuals would be for many people reassuring because as bad as it looks,
you know they, whoever they are, it's usually the Jews aren't going to let it get that bad
that they will pull back or the black pill is that they aren't intentionally trying to destroy
everything and there's nothing we can do when we're doomed.
And there's an amazing book by Arthur Herman called The Idea of the Clan of Western History.
I, it's one of my top 10 books where he goes through every 20 years how there's a different
population that say it's the end of the world, here's the proof. And very often the proof is
something that is kind of self fulfilling where there's no, it's not falsifiable.
And we both have to think of ways to falsify our claims from earlier.
So it is a big danger. It's a big danger online because very quickly if someone
who you thought was good but now is bad on one aspect, well they're controlled opposition
or they've been taken over or they've been kind of appropriated by the bad people, whoever those
bad people would be. I don't know that I have a good answer for this. I don't think it's as
pervasive as people think. The number of people who believe conspiracy there.
Right. I mean, and also conspiracy theory is a term used to dismiss ideas that
have some currency. The Constitutional Convention was a conspiracy. The Founding Fathers got
together secretly under sword of secrecy in Philadelphia, said we're throwing out the
Art of Confederation. We're making new government, right? Yeah, yeah, yeah. And Luther Martin left
and he told everyone this is a conspiracy and they're like, yeah, whatever, Luther Martin.
So, and Jeffrey Epstein was a conspiracy. Harvey Weinstein was a conspiracy. Bill Cosby
was a conspiracy. They all knew. They didn't care. Communist infiltration in America. There's a great
book by Eugene Lyons called The Red Decade. They all knew the every atrocity that was done under
Stalinism was excused in the West. And if you didn't believe it, oh, you've got this crazy
anti Russia conspiracy. So it's a term that is weaponized in a negative sense, but that does
not at all imply that it does not have very negative real life consequences because it's
kind of a cult of one, right? Like I'm at home on my computer. I bang to this ideology. Anyone who
doesn't agree with me, they are blind. They're oblivious. Mom and dad, my friends, you don't get
it. We were warned about people like you. And I think there's a very heavy correlation and
I'm not a psychiatrist, of course, between that and certain types of mild mental illness,
like, you know, some kind of paranoia, schizophrenia, things like that, because
after a certain point, if everything is a function, this conspiracy, it's, it's,
there's no randomness or beauty in life. Yeah. I mean, I don't know if you can say anything
interesting about it in the way of advice of how to take a step into conspiracy theory world
without completely going like diving deep, because it seems like that's what happens.
People can't look at Jeffrey Epstein. I can tell you what the device that has started.
Seriously and rigorously without going because you can look at Jeffrey Epstein and say there's
a deeper thing. You can always go deeper. It's like Jeffrey Epstein was just a tool of
the lizard people and the lizard people are the, well, they say Satanists.
In this case, and somehow recently, very popular spedophiles somehow always involved.
I'm not understanding any of that. I legitimately, I say this both humorously and seriously,
I need to look into it. And I guess the bigger question I'm asking, how does a serious human
being, somebody with a position at a respectable university, like look at a conspiracy theory
and look into it. When I look at somebody like Jeffrey Epstein who had a role at MIT.
Yeah. Oh yeah. And I think I'm not happy personally. I didn't, I wasn't there when
Jeffrey Epstein was there. I'm not happy with the behavior of people now about Jeffrey Epstein,
about the bureaucracy and the everybody's trying to keep quiet, hoping it blows over
without really looking into any, like looking in a deep philosophical way of like,
how do we let this human being be among us? Can I give you a better example?
Sure. That is kind of conspiratorial. The Speaker of the House, the longest serving
Republican Speaker of the House, Dennis Hastert was a pedophile. He went to jail.
The Democrats don't throw this in the Republicans faces every five minutes.
Not even Democratic activists. I find that very, very odd and not what I would predict.
Now, I'm not saying there's some kind of conspiracy, but when it comes to things
like sexual predation, which is something that I'm very, very concerned about. I'm an uncle now.
My sister just had her second kid recently. He's adorable. It's something that I don't
understand. It feels as if there's a lot of people who want this to all go away.
Now, I think it's also because we don't have the vocabulary and framework to discuss it,
because when you start talking about things like children and these kind of issues,
we want to believe it's all crap, because it's for those of us who aren't in this kind of mindset,
the idea that this happens to kids and happens frequently is something so horrible
that it's just like, I don't even want to hear it. That does these children and adult survivors
and enormous disservice. I don't know that I have any particular insight on this.
But see, how do you, the Catholic Church, again, there's all these topics that...
Public school teachers are far more proportionally predators of children than the Catholic Church.
I don't know. You're right. Perhaps I've been reading a lot about Stalin and Hitler.
Yeah. Somehow it's more comforting to be able to... And then... And then the atrocities that
are happening now, it's a little bit more difficult because... There was a New York Times article
starting to interrupt you where they were had people tracking down child pornography.
And I think the article said that they didn't have enough people just to cover the
videotapes of infants being raped. And we can even wrap our heads around like reading Lolita,
like, okay, she's 14, 12, okay, it's still a female, an infant. It's something that,
again, like with the Stalin example, we sat down here for 100 years. We would never think
it's something like this. Think of it in a sexual context. It makes no sense.
So, and the fact that this is international, okay, we eliminated completely in America.
Well, then they're going to go find... There's infants all over the world. There's video cameras
all over the world. So then it has to become a conspiracy because I... Someone has to film it.
I'm filming it. You're buying it. Your kid. It is literally a conspiratorial, not in the sense
of like a mafia conspiracy or some government Illuminati, but there is our networks designed
to produce this product. See, but like what I'm trying to do now, I mean, part of the... One
of the nice things with like a podcast and other things I'm involved with is removing myself from
having any kind of boss so I can do whatever that helps. Yes. Oh, it's so, it's so wonderful.
That had just happened to me. It's the most wonderful thing ever.
So I could do... I can actually, in moderation, consider like look into stuff.
Careful though. I was going to write a book about this that people pointed out. You sure want to do
this research? Because if you start googling around for this kind of stuff, it's on your computer.
Oh, in that sense. Yeah. I'm more concerned about, you know, it's the Nietzsche thing,
looking into the abyss. Like you want to be very... Yeah. I believe I can do this kind of thing in
moderation without slipping into the depths. Of course. I think that's intelligence that's...
Recently, quote unquote, looked into like the UFO community, the extraterrestrial, whatever
community. I think it always frustrated me that the scientific community like rolled their eyes
at all the UFO sightings, all that kind of stuff. Even though there could be fascinating, beautiful,
physical... Like, first of all, there could legit... Like ball lightning.
Or the ball lightning, right? That's at the very basic level is a fascinating thing.
And also, it could be something like... I mean, I don't know, but it could be something interesting,
like worth looking into. My grandfather was an air traffic controller back in the Soviet Union.
And he said, we saw this stuff all the time. These are planes that were not moving or whatever
things that were not moving according to anything we knew about. So it's absolutely real. He's not
some jerk with an iPhone in his backyard. This is a military professional who understood technology,
who knew where the secret bases were. So if he's telling me, it's some... Doesn't mean it's Martians,
but he's telling me there's something there. And there are many examples of these like military
people. These aren't some laymen who sees a story. These are legit people. Yeah. And so you can dismiss...
When you're talking about professionals who are around aircraft all the time,
who are familiar with aircraft at the highest levels, and they're seeing things that they
can't explain, they're clearly not stupid and they're clearly not underformed.
So Mike, there's different ways to dismiss ideas. For example, you were saying that trolling is a
good mechanism against that, but I'm not dismissing it by like rolling my eyes. I'm considering
legitimately that you're way smarter than me and you understand the world better than me.
Like I'm allowing myself to consider that possibility and thinking about it. Like maybe
that's true. Like seriously considering it. That's what I feel the way people should approach
intelligent people, serious quote unquote people, scientists should approach conspiracy theories.
Like look at it carefully, you know. First of all, is it possible that the earth is flat?
It's not trivial to show that the earth is not flat. It's a very good exercise. You should go
through it. Yes. But once you go through it, you realize that based on a lot of data and a lot of
evidence and there's a lot of different experiments, you can do yourself actually
to show that the earth is not flat. Okay. The same kind of process can be taken
for a lot of different conspiracy theories and it's helpful. And without slipping into the
depths of lizard people running everything. That's where I've now listened to two episodes of
Alex Jones's show because he goes crazy deep into different kind of worldviews that I was not
familiar with. Right. And I don't know what to make of it. I mean, the reason I've been listening
to it is because there's been a lot of discussions about platforming of different people. Yeah.
And I've been thinking about what a censorship mean. I've been thinking about whether, because Joe
Rogan said he's going to have Alex on again. And then I enjoyed it as a fan, just the entertainment
of it. But then I actually listened to Alex as thinking, is this human being dangerous for the
world? Like, is the ideas he's saying dangerous for the world? I'm more concerned with the Russian
conspiracy that we had for three years. And the claim that our election was not legitimate and
that everyone in the Trump White House is a stooge of Putin. And the people who said this had no
consequences for this. Alex Jones doesn't have the respect that they do. These are both areas of
concern for me. But he might, if there's, if he's given more platforms. So like the people who've,
and I'd be curious, I'm also a little bit, I don't know what to think about the idea that
Russians hack the election. It seems too easily accepted in the mainstream media.
Hillary Clinton said that how they did it was they had ads on the dark web. Now,
you and I both know what the dark web is. So the possibility of ads in the dark web
having an influence, a proportional influence on the election is literally zero.
Perhaps I should look into it more carefully, but I've found very little good data on exactly
what did the Russians do to hack elections. Like, technically speaking, what are we talking about
here? Like, as opposed to these kind of weird, like the best thing there's a couple of books and
like reporting on like farms, like a patrol farms, patrol farms. But let's see the data,
like how many exactly what are we talking about? Like what were they doing relative,
not just like some anecdotal discussions of, but like relative to the bigger, the size of Facebook.
Like if there's a few people, several hundreds, say the posting different political things on
Facebook relative to the full size of Facebook, let's look at the full size.
Right. You're thinking like a scientist.
The actual impact. Like because it's fascinating the social dynamics of viral information of videos
when Donald Trump retweets something. I think that's understudied the effect of that.
Like he retweeted a clip with Joe Rogan and Mike Tyson, where Mike Tyson says that he finds
fighting orgasmic. I don't understand it, but they'd be fascinating to think like,
what is the ripple effect on the social dynamic of our society from retweeting a clip about Mike
Tyson? What's your favorite Trump tweet? I tuned him out a long time ago, unfortunately.
This goes to the, you and I have a different relation with Donald Trump. You appreciate
the art form of trolling. It's nonsexual. Nonsexual, yeah. So I tend to prefer Bill Clinton. He's
more my type. No, I'm just kidding. You don't like that consent stuff. No, you appreciate the art
form of trolling. And Donald Trump is a master. He's the Da Vinci of trolling. So I tend to think
that trolling is ultimately destructive for society. And then Donald Trump takes nothing
seriously. He's playing a game. He'd make a game out of everything. He takes a lot of things seriously.
I think he's very committed to international peace. Sorry. I shouldn't speak so strong.
I think he takes, actually, yes, a lot of things seriously. I meant on Twitter and the game of
politics, he is, he only takes irreverently. Yeah. Yeah. And I appreciate it. I just would like to
focus on genuine, real expressions of humanity, especially positive. Well, this is one. This
is my favorite tweet. My fans got it lasered, etched, and put in a block of loose light for me.
And he said, every time I speak of the losers and haters, I do so with great affection. They
cannot help the fact that they were born fucked up. That's an actual Trump tweet. It's my favorite one.
That's kind of nice. That's love. That's love. That's kind of nice. Great affection.
That, I mean, exclamation point. Even,
I broke legs. What is love? Yeah, the sparks are flying. But I have to kind of analyze that from
like a literary perspective, but it seems like there's love in there, like a little bit. It's
a little bit lighthearted. Because he's saying, even when I'm going after them, don't take it so
seriously. Yeah. That's nice. It is nice. It's acknowledging the game of it. That's nice.
He's not always nice. He's very, very vicious. Yeah. Very vicious. He's done things that I can
tell you about that I'm like, this is a bad person. What do you think about one of the, okay,
listen, I'm not, I, for people listening, I do not have Trump derangement syndrome. I don't,
I see, I try to look for the good and the bad and everybody. One thing, perhaps it's irrational,
but perhaps because I've been reading history, I, the one triggering thing for me is the delaying
of elections. I believe in elections and this is, this is the part that you probably disagree with.
But I, you know, I believe in the value of people voting and I just seem too many dictators.
The place where they finally, the big switch happens when you question the legitimacy of
elections. We've been questioning the legitimacy of elections for the last three years.
I've only heard Donald Trump do it last like year, but the last three years you're saying somebody
else. You don't think not my president illegitimate. We're not going to normalize him as president.
Russia hacked this election. impeached. You're not a real president. You don't think that's
questioning legitimacy of 2016? Yeah, it's a good, I haven't been paying attention enough,
but I would, I would imagine that argument has been that I haven't actually heard
too many people, but I imagine that's been a popular thing to say. Oh, very much so, yeah.
Okay. I, but nevertheless, that's a part that didn't, that's not a statement that gained power
enough to say that Barack Obama will keep being president or Hillary Clinton should be president.
Newsweek had that article how Hillary Clinton could still be president. Newsweek.
No, but she's not. That's what I'm saying. My worry isn't, my worry isn't
saying that the election was illegitimate and people whining and mass scale and then Fox News
or CNN reporting for years or books being written for years. My worry is legitimately
martial law. A person's mate stays president. So here's the issue. Like there's a, there's a
big shift that happens. I did a book on North Korea. I'm not someone who thinks
dictatorship should be taken lightly. I'm not someone who thinks it can't happen here.
I think a lot of times people are desperate for dictatorship. So I'm with you. And I think this
is something, if you're going to hand wave it away, everyone else hand waved it away. Hitler's
never going to be chancellor. He's a lunatic. He's a joke. He's a joke. They couldn't find a
publisher for Mein Kampf in English because this is some guy from some random minor party in Germany
spouting nonsense. Who's going to read this crap? You know, so I completely agree with you in that
regard. But you don't think we're there. My point is Donald Trump this year had every
pathway open to him to declare martial law. The cities are being burned down. He could have very
easily sent in the tanks and people would have been applauding him from his side.
I think we feel so good right now. But am I wrong though? No, I, I, what he did,
he tweeted out to Mayor Wheeler of Portland. He said, call me. We will, we will solve this in minutes.
But you have to call. And he sat in his hands and they said, oh, it's his fault. The city is burning
down. He's not doing anything. And he goes, I'm not doing anything until you ask me to do it.
So I think that is even if you think he's an aspiring dictator, that is at least a sign
that there is some restraint on his aspirations. Can I just take that in as a beautiful,
like moment of hope? So I'm going to remember this moment. Beautiful Ted Cruz. Beautiful Ted.
I'm going to, I'm going to remember this. I mean, I should say that perhaps I'm irrationally,
this is the one moment where I feel myself being a little unhealthy. I think there's a
asymmetry because it's kind of like, okay, either I, if I leave the house, it's like Russian roulette.
Yeah. Maybe it's like a one in six shot. I'm pulling the trigger. I'm killing myself, but
that's one in six. That's not, and the consequences are so dire that a little paranoia would go a
long way. There's something that you can't go back. Yeah. It's an asymmetry. Yeah. The thing is,
the thing that makes Donald Trump new to me, and again, I'm a little naive in these things, but
he surprised me in how many ways he just didn't play by the rules. Yeah. And he's made me
a little aunt in this aunt colony think like, well, do you have to play by the rules at all?
Right. Why are we having elections? Why did you say it's coronavirus time? It's
not healthy to have elections. If I put my dictator hat on. Nancy Pelosi said that Joe Biden should
debate. Yeah. Did she? Yes. She says she shouldn't dignify Trump for the debate. He's the president.
He could be the worst president on earth, evil, despicable monster. I'll take that as an argument.
So she's playing politics, but she's okay. I don't think that's playing politics. I think when
there's a certain point when things get, when you start attacking institutions for the emergencies
at the moment and acting arbitrarily, that is when things are the slippery slope. Yeah. So
you're saying debates is one of the institutions. Like that's one of the traditions to have the
debates. I think the debates are extremely important. Now, I don't think that someone's a
good debater is going to be a good president. I mean, that's a big problem. But you're just saying
this is attacking just yet another tradition, yet another. You know, like how if you're dating,
if you're married to someone and someone throws out the word divorce, you can't unring that bell,
you threw it out there. Yeah. I'm saying you don't throw things out like that unless you really
are ready to go down this road. And I think that is, there's nothing in the Constitution about
debates. We've only had them since 1980. But still, I think they are extremely important.
It's also a great chance for Joe Biden to tell him to his face. You're full of crap. Here's what
you did. Here's what you did. Here's what you did. So fascinating that you're both, you acknowledge
that and you also see the value of tearing down the entire thing. So you're both worried about
no debates, or at least in your voice, in your tone. There's a great quote by Chesterton. I'm
not a fan of him at all. But he says, before you tear down a fence, make sure you know why
they put it up first. So I am for tearing it all down, but there's something called a control
demolition, like building seven. Allegedly. We knew we were in Tel Aviv.
Hashtag, building seven. We knew we were in Tel Aviv. Wow, you're faster than me.
You're operating at a different level. I need to upgrade my operating system.
I told you Windows 95. Yeah. Building seven. It's like Indiana Jones, right? If you're
going to tear, pull something away, make sure you have something in place first, as opposed to just
breaking it, and then just, especially in politics, because it escalates. And when things escalate
without any kind of response, it could go in a very bad, that's when the polling comes in.
So what's your prediction about the Biden Trump debates? Again, I just have this weird,
maybe we'll return to, maybe not in this, how do we put more love into the world? And like,
one of the things that worries me about the debates is it'll be the world's greatest troll
against the grandpa on the porch. For crap, this pants. Yeah. And it will not put more love into
the world. It will create more mockery. Joe Biden did a great job against Paul Ryan in 2012.
Paul Ryan was no lightweight. No one thought he was a lightweight. Joe Biden handed Sarah
Pale and her ass in 2008, which isn't as easy to do as you think, because she's a female,
so you're going to come off as bullying. That's something you have to worry about.
So the guy isn't, I think he is in the stages of cognitive decline.
So I think it's going to be interesting. I want it to be
like Mike Tyson beating up a child, because it'll be a source of amusement to me,
but I don't know how it's going to go. Is it possible that Joe Biden will be the Mike Tyson?
Yes, because in his last debate with Bernie, he was perfectly fine. And again, the guy was
a senator for decades. And I don't think anyone, if you looked at Joe Biden in 2010,
would have thought this guy is going to have his ass handed him a debate. You wouldn't think that at
all. So I don't know who we're going to see. Plus, he's got a lot of room to attack Trump.
So I'm sure he's going to come strapped and ready, and he's going to have his talking points
and watch Trump dance, try to tap dance around him. And if he's in a position,
I don't know what the rules of the debate are, to actually nail him to the wall,
it might actually, I'm sure he's going to have a lot of lines too. The problem is Trump is the
master counterpuncher. So when Hillary had her line, she's like, well, it's a good thing
that Donald Trump isn't in charge of our legal system. And he's like, yeah, you'd be in jail.
It's like, oh, lady, you set him up. That's painful to watch those debates.
I mean, there's something, I think it's actually analogous. Come to think of it,
your conversation with me right now. Sleepy Joe, I'm playing the role of Sleepy Joe.
So I actually connect to Joe because there's like these weird pauses that I do the same,
I do the same thing. And I noise a shit out of me that like, in mid sentence, I'll start saying
a different thing and take a tangent. I'm not as slow and drunk as I sound always. I swear
I'm more intelligent underneath. I'm slower but less drunk. Exactly. But the result,
one of those is true, but not both. Yeah. And Trump just like you are a master counterpuncher.
So it's gonna be messy. Here's the other thing in all seriousness. Chris Wallace is the moderator.
Chris Wallace has interviewed Trump several times and he was a tough, tough questioner.
So I don't think he's gonna come in there with softball questions. I think he's really going
to try to nail Trump down, which is tough to do. I like him a lot. And he's like,
Mr. President, sir, that's not accurate, blah, blah, blah. He's done it. And Trump gets very
frustrated because he doesn't just let him say whatever he wants and he hits him with the follow
up. I guess he's on Fox News and I listened to his Sunday program every once in a while.
I don't know. He gives me hope that I don't know. There's something in the voice like
that he's not bought. There's no question he's gonna take this seriously,
which I think is the best you could hope for in a moderator.
Like it feels like there's people that might actually take the mainstream media into a place
that's going to be better in the future and like we need people like him. You mean like Robespierre?
What do you mean? Like taking the mainstream media to a better future, like bring out the
guillotines. Okay. So you put your anarchist hat back on. I don't think Robespierre is much
of an anarchist, but yeah, I get what you're saying. Yeah. You don't think there should be
a centralized place for news? There isn't now. Well, that's what mainstream media is supposed
to represent and broken. Well, it's not whatever, what would you call that? That a place where
people traditionally said was like the legitimate source of truth. No, that's what the media was
supposed to represent. That's their big branding accomplishment. That was never true. Yeah,
because if you, here's what happens. We remember the Spanish American war, remember the main,
we have to take Cuba, yellow journalism, Wally Randolph Hearst, right? Then record scratch,
and then we're all objective. Like when did this transition happen according to people?
When you were saying that the Kaiser is the worst human being on earth, when you were downplaying
Stalin and downplaying Hitler's atrocities, when you were saying we had to be in Vietnam,
at what point, WMDs, when did it change? It never changed. You just are better con artists at a
certain point and now the mask is dropping. Yeah, but don't you think there's, at its best, like
investigative journalism can uncover truth in a way that like Reddit, subreddits can't.
You know Reddit? Sure, I agree. At its best, absolutely. That's not even dispute.
But like, don't you think like fake it until you make it is the right way to do it? Meaning like,
make the news? No, no. I meant the news saying like we dream of doing, of arriving at the truth
and reporting the truth. They don't say that. CNN had an advertisement that said,
this is an apple. We only report facts. That's a lie. No, that's now. And now it's clear things
have changed. They haven't changed. You just more, you're more aware of the chicanery.
How many people died in Iraq? Because Saddam Hussein was about to launch WMDs.
Who had consequences for this? No one. This isn't a minor thing. This is lots of dead people.
And also, I mean, dead people is horrible, but also the money, which has, like we said,
economic effects. Marion Williamson, I think it was, had the, or Trump,
both of them had the great point that goes, it's like a trillion dollars. How many schools
would that build? How many roads would that build? Even here? Why are we building hospitals in
Iraq that we destroyed when we could building hospitals here? It makes no sense. It's horrifying.
So who's responsible for that? Like who? Alex Jones.
No, I meant for, well, so who's responsible for arriving at the truth of that, of speaking to
the money spent on wars in Iraq? This is one of the great things about social media.
Twitter. You have faith in Twitter. Not just, not specific to Twitter,
but yeah, social media is the whole, what anyone could, here's a great, another great example.
Before, if you were talking about police brutality or these riots, you would have to perceive it in
the way it was framed and presented to, Nicholas Sandman is another example, Breonna Taylor,
all these things. Well, we don't have footage of her. You would have to perceive in the way
that it's edited and presented to you by the corporate press. Now everyone has a video camera,
everyone has their perspective, and it's very useful when these incidents happen,
where you could see the same incident from several angles and you don't need
Don Lemon or Chris Wallace to tell me what this means. I can see with my own eyes.
Yeah, I've been very pleasantly surprised about the power. See, like people, the mob again gets in
the way, they get emotional and they destroy like the, the ability for people to reason,
but you're right, that truth is unobstructed on social media. Like if you're, if you're careful
and patient, you can see the truth. Like for example, data on COVID, some of the best sources
are doctors. Like if you want to know the truth about the coronavirus, what's happening
is there's follow people on Twitter. There's certain people that are just like sourcing them
for me versus the CDC and the WHO. That's fast. I mean, it's, well, it's kind of anarchy, right?
Yes, it is. It's not kind of, it is anarchy. Yes. I mean, well, there's some censorship and all
that kind of stuff. You have censorship under anarchy in the sense that you're talking about.
Like people be kicked off of Twitter. That's a drawing. How do you kick somebody? Okay. So,
I mean, it's a private company. Private company. Most people wouldn't say Twitter is working,
but that's probably because they take for granted how well it's working. And they're just complaining
about the small part of it that's broken. Right. Yeah. Okay. Another question about.
You feel better? No. By the way, I mean, I had a personal gripe with the situation about the,
not a personal gripe, but I felt overly emotional about the possibility that there
would be some of Donald Trump messing with the election process. But you made me feel better.
Good. Saying like, if he had a bunch of opportunities to do what, like to do what I would have done
if I was a dictator, I would, the first time those rides over George Floyd, I would instituted
martial law. Do you know what I remember very vividly is after 9 11, and everyone was waiting
for George Bush to give his speech and he had 98% approved rating. And I remember very vividly,
because if he had said, we're suspending the constitution, everyone would have cheered for
him. Like he couldn't get enough support at that time and he didn't do it. And I can't say anything
really good about George W. Bush. I'm not a fan of his to say the least. So I think you and I,
and you know, other people who are familiar with, you know, totalitarian regimes to some extent,
from our ancestry, whatever, from research should always be the ones freaking out and warning. But
we should also be aware of, we got a ways to go before it's Hitler. And thankfully,
there are a lot of dominoes that have to fall into place before Hitler. It's like the game
Secret Hitler. It's a board game before Hitler becomes Hitler. Like it's not, especially in America,
there's lots of things that have to happen before you really get to that point. I mean,
FDR was for all intents and purposes, a dictator. But even then, the worst you could say, and this
is not something that you should take lightly, was internment of Japanese citizens, but they
weren't murdered. They weren't, you know, you know, under lock and key in the sense of like in cells.
So things could have gotten a lot worse for him. We have to, I mean, Hitler is such a horrible
person to bring up because Mussolini is better because Hitler is so closely connected to the
atrocities of the Holocaust. There's all the stuff that led up to the war in the war itself. Say
that there was no Holocaust. Hitler will probably be viewed differently. Yes, I should think so.
You think that's a very controversial stance. You think Hitler would be viewed differently
if it wasn't for the Holocaust? Well, I mean, but it's a funny thing that the, I would say,
the death of how many, 40, 50 million, I mean, I don't know how you calculate it,
is not seen as bad as the 6 million. Oh yeah, because of Mao and Stalin. Yeah.
But it's interesting. I'm working on it. You're working on it. Yeah, the next book I'm talking
about. Remind me, well, it's good. I'm glad a good writer is because I'm almost not reminded.
My last book, The New Right, you know, I had to deal with some like the Nazis. And one of the
points they make is how come everyone knows about the Holocaust, but no one knows about the Hall
of the Moor. And they're right. We should know about this because it is a great example of both
how the Western media were depraved, but also what human beings are capable of. And those scars
are still, you know, many Americans think Russian, Ukraine are the same thing. You know, that like,
oh, Trump's in debt with the Ukrainians, Trump's about the Russians, they think it's the same thing.
For us, it's complete lunacy. But this is the kind of thing where Pol Pot is another example,
where people have no clue of what has been done to their fellow man in the face of this earth,
and they should know. How much of that do you lay at the hands of communism? How much are you with
like a Jordan Pearson, who has is intricately connecting the atrocities, like, like you're
saying 1930s, Ukraine, where people were starved. I recently, my grandmother recently passed away,
and she survived that as a kid, which is, those people, I mean, just they're tough.
They're tough. Like that whole region is tough, because they survived that. And then right after
the occupation of Nazis, Germans. How much do you lay that at communism as an ideology versus
Stalin the man? I think, you know, Lenin was building concentration camps, you know, while
he was around, and slave labor. I don't, I think it's clearly both. There are certain variants
of communism that were far like Khrushchev, you know, and Gorbachev, the reason the Soviet Union
fell apart. And this is kind of, I'm going to spoil the end of the book. There's an amazing book
called Revolution 1989. It's like most people, the book of her read by Victor Sebastian, he's a
Hungarian author. And basically what happens in 1989, Poland has their elections. And then in 1990,
they kind of led in the labor people to the government. And people start crossing borders,
you know, in the Eastern Bloc. And you had Hanukkah from Eastern Germany, and Chachesko from Romania,
Colin Gorbachev, because those are the two toughest ones by communist standards. They go,
they're just escaping. We're going to lose everything. You got to send in the tanks,
like you did in Hungary, like you did in Czech Republic, Czechoslovakian 68. And Gorbachev goes,
I'm not sending the tanks. And they go, dude, if you don't send in the tanks, it's all done. And
he goes, nope, I'm not that kind of guy. And they were right. I mean, Khrushchev was personally
shot with his wife up against the wall. Hanukkah, I forgot what happened to him. But they all
self liberated my friend who was born in Czechoslovakia. His mom was pregnant, you know, under
communism. And she never even imagined he'd be free. And he was born under free. And they were
all looking around all these countries that self liberated. Because they're like, this is a trick,
right? They're just, they're trying to figure out who's like not good, so that they can arrest us
en masse and they didn't. So there, even within communism, there are bad guys and better guys.
But we talked about anarchy. We talked about democracy. Do you see
like there's democratic socialism conversations going on in the popular culture socialism is seen
as like evil or for some people great? Sure. What, like, what are your thoughts about is
in a political ideology? Evil. So you're on the evil side. Yes. Fundamentally. Yes. What, what,
what is it? You know, what, yeah, what, what makes it evil? What's like structurally,
if you were to try to analyze what? Sure, this, I say three ways. Morally, no person has the right
to tell another person how to live their life. Economically, it's not possible to make calculations
under socialism. It's only the price, the prices that are information that tells me, oh, this is,
we need to produce more of this, we need to produce less of this, without prices being able to adjust
and give information to producers and, and, and consumers, you have no way of being able to produce
effectively or efficiently. And also it is, it turns people against each other when you force
people to interact, when you force them into relationships, when you force them into jobs,
and you don't give them any choice when there's a monopoly, the consequence of monopoly,
everyone's familiar with ostensibly under capitalism, but somehow when it's a government
monopoly, all those economic principles don't work, that doesn't make any sense.
But there's force in democracy too. It's just you're, you're saying there's a bit more force
in, in socialism. Yeah. But that's interesting that you say that there's not enough information.
I mean, that's ultimately, you need to have really good data. Yes.
To achieve the goals of the system, even, even if there's no corruption. Right.
You just need to have the information. Right. Which you can't.
And capitalism provides you, like really strong. Real time. Real time information.
That, and if like capitalism at its best and cleanest, which is like perfect
information is available. There's no manipulation of information.
That's what, you know, that's one of the problems. Okay.
Can we talk about some candidates, the ones we got and possible alternatives?
So one question I have is why do we have within the system, why do we have the candidates we have?
Is, it seems, maybe you can correct me, highly unsatisfactory. Like the, like,
is anyone actually excited about our current candidates?
I'm kind of excited because no matter who wins the election, it's going to be hilarious.
So that is something that I'm excited about. From a, from a human perspective.
Yeah. Is that, is that what the whole system is? So that's one theory of the case is the
entire thing is optimized for viewership and excitement by definitions of like the reality
show kind of excitement. I think it is, if you look at what happened with Brett Kavanaugh,
this is not a career that would draw people who are, you might say, quality. Because no
matter who they are, there would be a huge incentive from the other team to denigrate
them and humiliate them in the worst possible ways. Because as the two teams lose their legitimacy
among Gen Pop, it's going to get harder and harder for them to maintain any kind of claims to
authority, which is something I like, but which does kind of play out in, you know,
certain nefarious ways. So people, the best of the best are not going to want to be politicians?
Yeah, because I could have a job, where I have a job interview and I'm running
Yahoo or whatever, or I could for 18 months have to eat, you know, corn dogs looking like
I'm going down on someone and shake hands and have all this, my family and on social media daily
call the worst things for what? And then I'm still not guaranteed the position.
But the flip side of that, like from my perspective is the competition is weak.
Meaning, like, you need a minimum amount of eloquence, clearly, that I don't,
the bar which I did not pass. I don't think either of them would be
considerably eloquent, Biden or Trump. No, I know. But that's what I'm saying. The competition,
like if you were wanting to become a politician, if you wanted to run for president,
the opportunity is there. Like if you were at all competent. Like if you had,
so like Andrew Yang is an example of somebody who has a bunch of ideas is somewhat eloquent,
like young, energetic, it feels like there should be thousands of Andrew Yang's
like that would enter the domain and he went nowhere.
Well, he, well, I wouldn't say he went nowhere. He generated quite a bit of excitement. He just
didn't go very far. That's okay. You don't have to run for president to generate excitement with
your ideas. You could be a podcast host. I'm not even joking.
That's right. That's right. That's right. And he's both Andrew Yang.
Oh, he's a podcast?
Yeah. He has a podcast called Yang Speaks.
Oh, okay. Cool.
Oh, wow. The music of the way you said, yeah, cool, is the way my mom talks to me when I tell
her something exciting going on in my life. Oh, that's nice, honey.
Oh, you made a robot. Oh, that's cool.
That makes coffee?
Oh, you're still single though, aren't you?
I wonder why. I wonder why.
Can I make you some robot wine? Give me some robot grandchildren.
Okay. But first of all, okay, let me ask you about Andrew Yang because he represents
fresh energy. You don't find him fresh or energetic. Is there any candidate you wish
was in the mix that was in the mix you wish was one of the last two remaining?
Yeah. People like Marion Williamson, I thought was great. Tulsi, I thought was great.
Amy Klobuchar got a bad rap. I think she held her own. Smart. She wasn't particularly funny.
That's okay. I think she was not threatening to a lot of people.
What did you like about them?
I guess it's named all women. That's interesting. It wasn't even intentional.
Tulsi, I like that she was aggressive, has a good resume, and is not
staying the course for the establishment. Marion Williamson, I like because she comes
from a place from what it seems of genuine compassion. Maybe she's a sociopath, I don't know.
I read her book and it actually affected me profoundly because it's very rare when you read
a book and there's even that one idea that blows your mind and that you kind of think about all
the time. There was one such idea in her book about she was teaching something called A Course
in Miracles in Hollywood. I think she still teaches it. This was during the 80s to hide the
AIDS crisis. All these young men in the prime of their life were dropping like flies. She's
trying to give them hope. Well, good luck. They're dying. No one cares. They're like,
you can't tell us that they're going to cure this. That's a lie. She goes,
what if I told you they're not going to cure it? What if I told you it's going to be to diabetes?
They cut off your foot and you're going to go blind. Would that be something that you can
hope for? When you put it like that, it's like, yeah. If you're talking to them, it's like a
homeless junkie and you're like, you could be a doctor. You're a lawyer. You're a lawyer.
Cool story. You could have a studio apartment with a terrible roommate and a shitty job,
but when you're on the street cooking breakfast in a teaspoon and you hear that, you're like,
would that really be so bad? Is that really so much worse than this? No. And it becomes something.
So when she put it in those terms, I'm like, wow, this woman that really did a number on me
in terms of teaching people how to be hopeful. Small steps. But it's also then it becomes less of
I need a miracle to be like, oh, this is really manageable. Yeah. And it's absurd to think it's
impossible. What about what's your take on you the 2020 that Brett Weinstein pushed forward?
It was DOA. He couldn't even send up to Twitter. Dead on arrival. He couldn't even send up to
Twitter, let alone or to Facebook, they got blocked, let alone to the internet. It was not
hugely problematic, by the way, that Twitter would block that. Not at all. I don't know why
they blocked it, but I believe, I don't know, problematic means that's a word that does a lot
of work that people wanted to do conceptually. The idea that unity is like taking the rejects
from each party and we're going to have something that no one likes and therefore it's going to
be a compromise is absurd. The last time we had this kind of unity ticket was the Civil War,
where you had Andrew Johnson from the Democrats and Lincoln from the Republicans. This was not
something that ended well, particularly nicely for both halves of the country.
So that's the way you see it. The way I saw it, I guess I haven't looked carefully at it. I haven't
either, to be fair. The way I saw it is emphasizing centrists, which is... How is Tulsi a centrist?
Tulsi was involved? Yes, he's trying to push Tulsi and Jesse Ventura or something.
So, okay, I don't know. I don't know the specifics. As a scientist, you also know
centrism is not a coherent term in politics. No, but see now you're like, what is it,
pleading to authority and my ego? No, no, I'm pleading to how you approach data.
If someone is saying the mean is accurate, that only mean... I mean, the mean could be anywhere.
It's a function of what's around it. That mean is true. I don't even know what
centrists are supposed to mean, but what it means to me, there's no idea. A centrist,
there's more of a center right or center left. To me, what that means is somebody who is
a liberal or conservative, but is open minded and empathetic to the other side.
Joe Biden had the crime bill. Joe Biden voted for Republican Supreme Court justices. Joe Biden
voted for a balanced budget. Joe Biden voted for Bush's war. And I'm sure probably I haven't
looked this up the Patriot Act. Joe, if you want a centrist, you have Joe Biden.
Yeah, okay. He's worked very well with the Republicans.
That argument could be made. Of course, everybody will always resist that argument.
It's indeniable. In fact, during the campaign, some activist started yelling at him at a town
hall, not yelling, just saying, hey, we need open borders. Joe Biden says, I'm not for open borders.
Go vote for Trump and literally turn his back on the man. And this is during the primaries where
it would be who of you to try to appeal to the base. And of course, you can probably also make
the argument that Donald Trump is center right if not center left. Well, I mean, he's very unique as
a personality. But if you look at his record and his first name is rhetoric, you can say is not
centrist at all. But in terms of how he governs the budgeting, I mean, has been very moderate.
It certainly hasn't been like draconian budget cuts. The Supreme Court, you could say, okay,
he's hard right. Immigration, you could say in certain capacities, he's hard right. But in terms
of pro life, what has he done there in terms of, you know, so it's in many other aspects,
he's been very much this kind of me too, Republican, but certainly the rhetoric,
it's very hard to make in the case that he's a centrist. So you don't like,
is there any other idea you find compelling? Like what I like about UND 2020, is this an idea
for a different way for like a different party, a different path forward. So ideas,
just like anarchy, is an interesting idea that leads to discourse that leads to...
I don't think it's interesting at all. And here's why I don't think it's interesting.
Sweden has eight parties in its parliament, Iceland, population is like 150,000. They've
got nine, I think it was Czech Republic has nine, Britain has five. So the claim that two parties
is the sensorious of speech, but three, oh, now all of a sudden, it makes no sense,
doesn't port to the data, number one. Number two is Donald Trump demonstrated that you can be
basically a third party candidate, seize the machinery of an existing party and appropriate
to your own ends, as Bernie Sanders almost did. Bernie Sanders has never been a Democrat,
major credit to him for that's not easy to be elected as Sanders and independent,
he's done it repeatedly. So these are two examples of ossified elites right for the picking. So to
have a third party makes no real sense. Speaking of which, party you talk about quite a bit.
And this is a personal challenge to you. Let me bring up the libertarian party.
And the personal challenge is to go five minutes without mocking them
in discussing this idea. So first of all, what? I'm being trolled. Okay, I'm being trolled.
Yeah, I'm being trolled. Okay, good. Do you remember the Fun Friends? There was an episode
where Chandler had to not make fun of people like, can you go one day, Chandler? And Phoebe
starts telling him about like this UFO she saw. And he's like, that's very interesting. Nice for you.
This is exactly that. Okay, so a true master would be able to play within the game within
the constraints. So no, I'm pretty sure you'll still mock them. But no, no, I'll stick to the
rules five minutes easy. So first of all, speaking broadly about libertarianism,
can you speak to that, how you feel about it? And then also to the libertarian party,
which is the implementation of it in our current system. So I think libertarianism is a great idea.
And I think there's many libertarian ideas that have become much more mainstream, which I'm very,
very happy about. I remember there was an article in either New York or New Yorker magazine in the
early 90s, where they talked about the Cato Institute, which is a libertarian think tank.
And they refer to the fact that Cato was against war, and against like regulation with a wacky
consistency. Because they didn't know how to reconcile these two things. I don't remember
where the two things were, but I remember that expression, wacky consistency. And we're all
taught, and this is very much before the internet, that there's two tribes. And if you're pro life,
you have to hate gays. And if you're for socialized medicine, that also means you have to be for
free speech. And there's a whole menu, and you got to sign into all of them. And that menu's
terrible. They hate America, they want to destroy it. Oh my God, those are horrible evil. This is
the menu you want. And the libertarian party, to some extent, and just libertarians as a whole,
said, you know, you can do the Chinese buffet and take a little from column A, a little from column B,
and have an ideology that is coherent and consistent, an ideology of peace and nonaggression
and things like that. The libertarian party takes its model from like the early progressive and
populist parties from the early 20th century, which were not very effective in terms of getting
people elected, but were extremely effective in terms of getting the two major parties to
appropriate and adopt their ideas and implement them. And in Britain as well, the liberal party
got destroyed and became taken over by labor as the alternative party to the Tories, and have those
ideas basically become mainstreamed. So I think that and the libertarian, my friend who passed away,
Eric, I miss him dearly, was their webmaster. And his whole point is, if you don't think of it in
terms of party in terms of getting people elected, but if you think of it as a party in terms of
getting people educated about alternatives, then there's enormous use for that. That was his
perspective. And I don't think that's an absurd perspective. But here's some libertarian ideas
that have become extremely mainstream. War should be a last resort. This is something we've taught
as kids and we all say, but for many years, it's been like, they don't think of it as a last resort.
It's like something's bad. Well, it's like the first instinct. Now it's like, let's really
give it a week, just a week, like what's going on in Syria. Is there really going to be a genocide,
the Kurds, you know, things like that. So that's one. Another thing is drug legalization.
This was, you know, when you and I were kids, oh, it's crazy. It's only hippies want to smoke pot.
Now it's like, with it, I was on a grand jury. And the point people make is, are you sure that
this 16 year old who's selling weed, let's say selling, should his life be ruined? Should he be
imprisoned with rapists and murderers? Like if you say yes, say yes, but you, but are you,
you have to acknowledge that that's what you're meaning. And then a lot of people are like,
wait a minute, there's got to be a third option. Then he has no consequences or he's imprisoned
with a rapist. Like I'm not comfortable with either of these. And I think the other one is
a increasing skepticism. This libertarians run top of this first and the hard left of the police.
As of now, asset forfeiture steals more from people than burglaries. What people don't know
about what asset forfeiture is, if the cops come to your house and they suspect you, you haven't
been convicted of using your car or your house or whatever in terms of selling drugs, they can take
whatever they want. And then you have to sue to prove your innocence and get your property back.
It's a complete violation of due process. People don't realize this is going on. It's a great way
for the cops to increase their budgets and it's legal. And libertarians were like the first big
one saying, guys, this is not American and this is crazy. And now increasingly people
on conservatives and leftists like, wait a minute, this, this is, even if you are selling drugs,
like they take your house, what are you talking about? So I think those are some mechanisms
that libertarianism, though, but not by name, has become far more popular.
Yeah, that's interesting. So the idea, yeah, a coherence set of ideas that eventually get
integrated into a two party system. Yeah. The war, that's an interesting one. You're right.
I would want, I wonder what the thread there is. I wonder how it connects to 9 11 and so on.
But I think that I think the Patriot Act, Patriot Act, for people who are politically savvy,
we're like, oh, okay, this is not a joke. This is really a crazy infringement or freedoms.
And both parties are falling over each other to sign into law and the Orwellian name.
You don't want to, how can you be against patriotism? What kind of person? You know what I mean? So
that, I think for a lot of people, especially both civil libertarians on the left and a lot of
conservatives who are constitutionalists are like, wait a minute, this isn't, I'm not comfortable
with this. And I'm also not comfortable with how comfortable everyone in Washington is with it.
You're right. Probably libertarians and libertarianism is a place of ideas,
which is why I have a connection to it. I like the, every time I listen to those folks, I like
them. I feel connected to them. I would even sometimes, depending on the day, call myself a
libertarian. But we're all in the spectrum. So that's why we're all in the spectrum. Yeah.
But like, when I look at the people that actually rise to the top
in terms of like the people who represent the party, this is where like five minutes right out,
right? I could go. I'm allowed. You can go. Why are they so weird? Why aren't strong candidates
emerging that represent as political, like representatives, or as like famous speakers,
like that represent the ideology? I think libertarians tend to be, I think
John Hite in his book, in his research, he's a political scientist. And he does a lot of
things about how people come to their political conclusions and what factors
force people to reach conclusions. And he found that libertarians are the least empathetic and
most rationalistic of all the groups. And by that, he means like they think in terms of logic,
as opposed to like people's feelings. And that has positives and has negatives.
And we have the A.B. testing with Ron Paul. Ron Paul ran for president as a libertarian
nominee. He was the nominee. He got pretty much nowhere in 1998. Then he ran as a return to
Republican Party as a congressman for many years from Texas. He ran for the presidency in 2008
and 2012. And in 2008, he stood on stage with Rudy Giuliani and told him that they were here
in 9.11 because we're over there, which would have been a shocking, horrifying taboo a few years
earlier. Many people were like, holy crap, this is amazing. Giuliani was all offended. And Ron
Paul's like, I took some guts by the way. I did. And I heard that it was so refreshing that not
what he said, but the fact that he said something that took guts. It made me realize how rare it is
for people, for politicians, but even people to say something that takes guts.
Well, it's also the idea that you can't, even if you think America has a right to invade any
country on earth as much as it wants and kill people as a consequence of war and blow up their
buildings and destroy their country, you can't with a straight face not expect us to have consequences,
even if they're consequence from evil people. Even if we're 100% the good guys and they're
100% the bad guys, those bad guys, some of them are still going to try to do something.
What happens next? You know what I mean? So that kind of concept that there's any
American culpability was where America, where we are the good guys by definition,
we're not culpable to have people start thinking about, what if there's another way?
What if we're not there and then they're not here and we're kind of doing a backdoor,
we're talking so different scenarios. So the fact that he got so much more traction
as a Republican, the fact that Donald Trump, who came out of nowhere, became not only the
candidate but the president tells people, it's like getting a book deal, right? You can either go,
there's three choices. You can either self publish, mainstream publisher or independent
publisher. The independent publisher is the worst of all choices because you're not getting a big
advance. They're not going to be able to promote you a lot and they don't get the distribution.
Mainstream, I've done mainstream itself, right? With self, I don't have the cred, the respectability
of a mainstream for the cachet. Can be a New York Times bestseller. Right. It takes a lot of work,
but I get a lot more of the profit. If it looks good on the shelf and Amazon looks identical,
so on and so forth. With the mainstream, the benefits and costs are pretty much obvious to
most people. So the same thing, it's like you can either be an independent like Ross Perot
or you could be just C's when the party apparatus, which the benefits are norms there.
But in terms of going third party, I don't know the libertarian party apparatus other than maybe
some ballot access is really that efficacious. And then you're going to have a lot of baggage
because if you hear independent, Jesse Ventura, Ross Perot, you think of the person. Now you have
to define yourself and you have to defend the party. That's two bridges for most people.
Brilliantly put. Okay. Thank you. Let me speak to you because I'm speaking to Yaron Brooks and
Yaron. I like him. Yeah. So, but that another example, I was... Ask him to tell you a joke
about Ayn Rand if he can do it. So there, that's one criticism I've heard you say, which is
they're unable to speak to any weaknesses in either Ayn Rand's or Objectivist's worldview.
Yes. That's really... You put it, I know you're half joking, but that's actually a legitimate
discussion to have. I'm not joking at all. Because that's, to me, one of the criticisms
and one of the explanations why the world seems to disrespect Ayn Rand, the people that do,
is she kind of implies that her ideas are like flawless. No, she says they correspond to reality.
Yeah. Right. That's the term she uses. That... I mean, Objectivist, it's in the name. It's,
you know, it's just facts. Like, it's impossible to basically argue against because it's pretty
simple. It's just all facts. Well, that's, it's possible to argue against, but she would say
she's never met a good critic who can argue the facts at misrepresentation. And she's not
entirely wrong. She's often caricatured because she has a very extreme personality and extreme
worldview. But that, to me, I mean, some people, there's a guy named in the physics mathematics
community called Stephen Wolfram. I don't know if you're from... Wolfram Alpha? Yeah.
Okay. He has a similar style of speaking sometimes, which is like, I've created a science,
but that turns a lot of people off, like this kind of weird confidence. But he's one of my
favorite people. I think one of the most brilliant people. If you just ignore that little bit of
ego or whatever you call that, that there's some beautiful ideas in there. She's an amazing person.
And that, for me, objectivism, I'm undereducated about it, about it. I hope to be more educated,
but there's some interesting ideas that, again, just like with UFOs,
not that there's a connection between two. Don't bring that up for your own. He won't like it.
He won't. Einran's like UFOs. Oh, no, no, no. This interview is over. That's a good yarn. Okay.
But you have to be a little bit open minded. But what's your sense of objectivism? Are there
interesting ideas that are useful to you to think about? I own her copy of the first printing of
the fountain head. So that should tell you a little bit about how my affection for Ms. Rand,
how heavy that goes. Einran does not have all the answers, but she has all the questions.
So if you study Rand, you are going to be forced to think through some very basic things,
and you're going to have your eyes open very, very heavily. She was not perfect. She never claimed to
be perfect. She was asked on Donahue, is it true that according to your philosophy, you are a perfect
being? She said, I never think of myself that way. And she said, but if you ask me, do I practice
what I preach? The answer is yes, resoundingly. She's a fascinating woman. What is really interesting
about her, and this is something you'd appreciate personally, is when you read her essays, she'll
have these weird sides. And she would talk about art, and she'd be like, and this is why the US
should be the only country with nuclear weapons. And when you follow a brilliant mind making these
seemingly disparate connections, it's something I find to be just absolutely inspiring and awesome
and entertaining. I think there's lots of things about her that people like Yaron would make
uncomfortable. Well, like she, they, so objectivism, like any other philosophy has all these techniques
to kind of hand wave away things you don't want to talk about and like pretend it. So they talk
about things like having no metaphysical significance, right? So what that means is like,
well, what about this? I don't want to talk about it. Like, it doesn't matter. Like, it literally
needs a fancy philosophical term. It doesn't matter. Or they will say correctly that it's very
twisted in our culture that when we have heroes, we look for their flaws instead of looking for
their virtues. That's a hundred percent valid perspective. However, if I'm sitting here telling
you that I think this woman is a badass, and she's amazing, and she should be studied, but there's
also these idiosyncrasies. They don't want to hear it because they, and I think it's very convenient
for them because there's a lot of things she did that were, here's an example. Rand was very, very
pro, a happiness and poor pleasure. She was very pro sex, which is kind of surprising looking at
her and how she talked and how strident she was. As a result of this, she never got her cats fixed
to deny them the pleasure of orgasm. So her male cats are spraying up her entire house. Like that
is, I mean, that's her putting her philosophy into practice, but it's still gross. So that's the
kind of thing where I don't think he'd be. Another thing is Rand had an article on a woman president
and she said a woman should never be president, right? Now, when Rand says things that are too
goofy for them, they say, oh, that's not objectivism. That's her personal preference. It's like,
she did not have these lines. Objectivism was always defined as Ayn Rand's writings
plus the additional essays in her books. So if this was in part of those books,
this counts as official objectivism, but they pretend otherwise. So that's another example.
Plus they, she was, and I bet you she was on the spectrum to some extent. I'm not joking.
I'm not using that derisively. She was of the belief and not inaccurately because that humor
is used to denigrate and humiliate. And she was thinking about the John Stuart type before there
was a John Stuart. And a lot of times, like how I use mocking, but she was resentful correctly
that a lot of times people who are great and accomplished, little nobodies will make a punch
line just to bring them down and just bother her. Here's an example I just thought of.
I remember in, I don't remember when it was, it must have been the 90s. They had a segment of MTV
of all these musicians who were making their own perfumes, right? And this girl grabbed Prince's
perfume. And before she even smelled it, she had the joke ready. She just, oh, this smells almost
as bad as his music lately. It's like, first of all, I'm sure the perfume's fine. And second,
well, this is Prince. He's one of the all time greats and you can't wait to, you know, you know,
denigrate him. Like, and apart, I want to be like, like, how dare you? Like, as if, as if this perfume
in any way, in any way mitigates his amazing accomplishments and achievements, you horrible
person. But I do have some great Iron Man jokes and he would not be happy about them.
The perfume thing, the problem with this is just not funny. Not that. Oh, he sucks. Okay, great.
Not that they dared to try to be humorous. Right. Because I don't know why you mentioned John Stuart
because John Stuart is pretty, can be funny. Right. But his, he taught a generation, you
still see this on Twitter, where things have to be inherently sarcastic and snide. But isn't that,
I mean, aren't you practicing that? No, I use irony and not sarcasm. Here's an example when people,
like you say something and someone replied to be like, um, last I checked, blah, blah, blah, blah.
And I'll say them. I go, what do you think saying last I checked added to your point? You're giving
me valuable information and data, but you are trained to believe that it has to be couched
in this sneering. It doesn't just give me the information. This is useful information.
Yeah. That's, that's true. It's an e jerk. But see, John Stuart did it masterfully.
Correct. And they don't. And they, they don't, it's, it's like people who copy communities,
certain comedians, you try to copy them and use everything in the process of copy. Yeah.
Yep. Okay. But in terms of the, the philosophy of, you know, selfishness, this kind of
individual focused idea and I imagine that connects with you. Yes. And I think it would connect with
more people if they understood what she meant by it. Nathaniel Brandon, who was her heir until
she kind of broke with him and he was a code dedicated of Atlas shrugged said, no one will say
on Rand's views with a straight face. They won't say, I believe that my happiness matters and is
important and is worth fighting for. And that I ran says this and she's dangerous. Now it's very
easy to say this could have dangerous consequences if you're a sociopath, but to put it in those
terms, I think is extremely healthy. I think more people should want to be happy. And, and
I think a lot of us are raised to be apologetic, especially in this cynical media culture,
that if you say, I want to be happy, I want to love my life, that it's just like, okay,
sweetheart. And the eye rolling. And I think that's so pernicious and so horrifying. And this is why
I'm a Camus person because Camus thought the arch enemy was cynicism and I could not agree more.
Like if you are the kind of person, if someone likes a band and you're like, oh,
she like them, blah, blah, blah. It's like, this gives them happiness. Yeah. Now there's
certain exceptions, but if it gives you happiness, it's not for you. That's cool.
Okay, this is beautiful. I, I so agree with you on the eye rolling, but you see the best of
trolling is not the eye roll. Correct. Of course not. The best of trolling is taking down the
eye rollers. I'm going to have to think about that. Okay. Cause I kind of red bull. Yeah.
Cause I put them all. My blood type is red bull.
I kind of put them all in the same bin. Okay. And they're not, they're not, they're not.
Okay. All right. Here's another example of trolling. I was making jokes about Ron Paul. He
just had a stroke, right? And someone came at me and they're like, oh, blah, blah, blah, you know,
you're ugly. I hope you have a stroke. I hope you're in the hospital. And I just go,
I just did have a stroke on your mom's face. So they came at me and now they got put in their
place with a sub par. Um, I mean, that wasn't clever. You weren't, you weren't clever. Not
particularly. No. Well, one of your things you do, which is interesting, I mean, I give you
props in a sense is you're willing to go farther than people expect you to. Yes. That's fun.
Yeah. In fact, I'll probably edit out like half of this podcast because the thing you did, which
she kept in, I should mention, Mikaela Peterson now has a podcast, which is nice. I guess was it
on her podcast? She was on mine. She was on yours. We did both, but this is when you're
referring to when she was on mine. Yeah. She was on, yeah, right. And you went right for the,
so I'll tell you what it was. You don't have to paraphrase. So I opened up, I say,
you know, she's Jordan Peterson's dad. And as many people know, Jordan, sorry, he's her dad,
yeah. She's had a long issue with substance addiction. And I said to her, you're, you know,
you're most famous for being, you know, Jordan Peterson's daughter. You know, many people,
he's changed so many lives around the world. He's, and he's been such an enormous influence
to me personally, that I've started taking Benzo Duazepines recreationally. And she's like,
oh my God, Michael is so horrible. Yeah. You, because you pulled me in with this, because
you're taught, I mean, you know, because he's going through a rough time now, she's going through
just everything was just, you pulled me in emotionally. I was like, this is going to be
the sweet Mike is going to be just this wonderful. And then just bam. So that's, that's, that's,
that was props to you on that. It wasn't whatever that is, that is an art form when done well,
it can be taken too far. My criticism is that that feels too good for some people.
What do you mean? Oh, they're too happy being a reference because to show that they don't care.
But I think that's another form of cynicism though. Right. So I, because you think it's
possible to be a troll and still be the live life to its highest ideal in the Camus sense.
I try. That's kind of my ideal. I, I believe it's not. It becomes a drug. I feel like that takes
you like, I think love ultimately is the way to experience like every moment of every day.
You don't think that was an expression of, I honestly think, let's, let's, let's split
hairs here because I think this is something of use here. I do think that me, me being able to
make her laugh about this year of hell she was in does create an element of love and connection
between me and her. Yeah, but I know she would say that. Yes. It wasn't that. It was what you said
in combination with the sweetness everywhere else, the kindness. It's a very subtle thing,
but like, it's like some of the deepest connections we have with others is when we
like mock them lovingly or yes, correct. But like there is stuff. There's kindness around that.
Yes. Not in words, but in like, of course, subtle things because it creates an air of
familial being familial. Like we're through this together. Like, it's yeah. Yeah. That's missing.
That's very difficult to do on the internet. I agree with you. I agree with you. That's why
I might like my general approach on the internet is to be more like simple, less witty and more
like dumbly loving. But that's not your core competency being witty.
Me? Yeah. I could be witty. You can be, but I'm saying that's not your core competency. I'm
saying you're bad at it, but I'm saying that's not where you go like organically, especially with
strangers. I just feel like nobody's core competence on the internet is, uh, I guess if you want to
bring love to the world, nobody's core competence is given the current platforms, nobody's core
competence is wit. It's very difficult to be witty on the internet without, while still communicating
kindness. Like, I'll give you another example in the same way that you can in physical space.
I'll give you another example. Someone came at me and they were like, they give me a donation. People
do this all the time. And they go, oh, um, like I started reading your books because of my wife
and, you know, now watch your shows together and keep up the good work. And I go, what does her
boyfriend think? So that is an example of wit and love because that person feels seen. I'm
acknowledging them. I'm also making a joke at their expense. We know it's a joke. So I think
it's a good point. Good point. Language is often used in nonliteral ways to cue emotional and
connectivity. It's difficult, but it's very difficult. What you've done is difficult to
accomplish, but you've done it well. I mean, you do, like you did, you've been doing these live
streams, which are nice that people give you a bunch of money and donations and stuff. And then
you, you'll often like make fun of certain aspects of their questions and so on. But it's always
loving. That's not from love. That is genuine annoyance because they ask me some really dumb
questions, but they're still underlying. It's not even like there's a kind person under that.
That's being communicated. That's interesting. But I don't know if I get that from your Twitter.
I know I get that from the video. The something about the face, something about like,
yeah, of course, it's much harder with more data. The more easy it is to convey emotion and subtlety.
Absolutely. If you only have literally black and white letters, it's going to be or whatever,
white and black, if you have night mode, it's going to be a very different, it's much more
limited information. Yeah. But this is the fundamental thing is like.
Here's another example. Like if they had access to my face, like a lot of times some people
don't know who I am and they come at me, call me a Nazi anti semi, right? And I start talking
about the Jews and just how terrible the Jews are. Now, all my audience knows I'm Jewish that I went
to a Shiva. So they're sitting there laughing because this person's making ass to themselves.
That person has no idea. But if there was video, then they would be like, okay, wait a minute,
something's up. Yeah. Yeah. Something's up. I don't know. I think it's entertaining. I think
it's fun, but I just, I don't think it's scalable. And ultimately I'm trying to figure out this whole
trolling thing because I think it's really destructive. I've been the outrage mob, the
outrage mobs, the just the dynamics of Twitter has been really bothering me. Okay. And I've been
trying to figure out if we can try to build an alternative to Twitter, perhaps, or try to encourage
Twitter to be better, how to have nuanced, healthy conversations. Like the reason I talk about love
isn't just for the love's sake. It's just a good base from which to have difficult conversations.
Like that's a good starting point. Because if you start, like I would argue that the kind of
conversation you have on Twitter is fun, but it might not be a good starting point for difficult
nuanced conversation. Well, I'm not interested in having those conversations with most people.
No, I know. So I agree with you. Your point is valid. Yes. But like I'm saying, so if we were
trying to have a difficult nuanced conversation about, say, race in America or policing, is there
racism, institutional racism of policing? Okay. There's the only conversations that have been
nuanced about it that I've heard is in the podcasting medium, which is the magic of podcasting,
which is great. But that's the downside of podcasting is it's a very small number of people,
even if it's in the thousands, it's still small. And then there's millions of people on social
media and they're not having nuanced conversation at all. They're not capable of it. That's the
difference in you. They have no minds. I believe they are. There's no data that serves us. And
then both of us aren't being not scientific. You don't have data to support your world either.
You're making the claim. Well, you are too. No, I'm not. If I'm looking at an object, the claim
that it has in mind. Well, no, your claim is that people are fundamentally stupid.
We can do this. Aren't you a martial artist? Yes. How's it feel? I just judo on you.
But you really don't think people are deep down like capable of being intelligent?
No, not at all. Not deep down that surface. I'm not joking. I'm not being tongue and cheek.
I'm not being cynical. I do not at all think they have this capacity.
I'm going to think because you're being so clear about it. You're not even,
I'm going to think about that. You know why? Here's evidence for my position,
not proof. And this is, of course, data that is of little use, but it's of interest.
A lot of times when you have an audience as big as mine and people come at you,
not only will people say the same thing, the same concept, they'll say the same concept in the same
way. That is not a mind. Yeah. That surface evidence. You're saying this iceberg looks
like this from the surface. I'm saying there's an iceberg there that if challenged can
rise to the occasion of deep thinking. And you're saying, nope. Nope. It's just frozen water.
Atmarozhene. Isn't that the Russian expression? That's ice cream. No, not marozhene. Atmarozhene.
Doesn't it mean like no one's there? Actually, I don't know. Yeah, it means like, yeah.
Yeah. It's like thought. It means nikova doma. Nikova doma. Okay. Well, so you're challenging me
to be a little bit more rigorous. I think I'll try to prove. I'm not challenging you anything. I'm
just saying. No, not challenging me, but like I'm challenging myself based on what you're saying,
because I'd like to prove you wrong and find actual data to show you're wrong. And I think I can,
but I would need to get that data. That's funny you said I think I can when they were working
on my biography, ego and hubris, the title I had suggested was the little engine that could but
shouldn't. I think that's a great title. That's pretty good. Yeah. Speaking of biographies,
I mean, one, I read your book or listened to your book, listened to, there's an audio book for
you, right? Yeah, I did the audio. Yeah. Yeah. You, you read it? My goal is, yes. Okay. So this was,
this was a, I didn't do Yaron Brooks voice in the book. I did all the different voices because
he has a lisp and I didn't want to sound like I was making fun of him. Yeah. I don't remember you
reading it, but it was, I was really enjoyed it. No, okay. It was good. It was like a year, year and
a half ago. This I can prove. Well, let me at a high level see if you can pull this off. If I ask
you, what's the book you write about? It's about a group of people who are united solely by their
opposition to progressivism, who have little else in common, but who are all frequently caricatured
and dismissed by the larger establishment media. But you give this kind of story of how it came
to be. Sure. And to me, like we're talking about trolls, but the internet side of things is quite
interesting. So first of all, how does alt right connect? So the alt right is the subset of the
new right, which feels that race, not racism, is the most or one of the most important sociopolitical
issues. Are any of those folks like part of the mainstream or worth paying attention to?
Not on the mainstream. The alt right? Yeah. By definition, they would be part of the mainstream.
They would not be part of it. No, they would not. I don't know that any of them, well,
worth is not a position. I'm not a position to say worth. I would say that it is of use
to be familiar with their arguments because to dismiss any school of thought, especially one
that has historically gained leverage, especially one that has historically gained leverage in very
dark ways, especially in America, in Europe and other places, just to say, oh, they're racist.
I don't need to think about them. It doesn't behoove you. So what lessons do we draw from
the 4chan side of things, like the internet side of the movement? Tits or get the fuck out?
Can you define every single word in this? Tits are breasts or get the fuck out. That's from 4chan.
Okay. What does it mean? Sometimes a woman will appear in 4chan and they'll just reply,
tits or get the fuck out. I'm trying to understand. Oh, that's the way.
I just, very slow. Okay, so that's very disrespectful towards female
members of the community. I don't understand. There's rules to this community and one of them is,
we're not very good with women. That's one of the rules. It's a principle in a rule.
It's a principle. We're not going to ever get laid. That's fundamental principle.
Though we are going to get pics. Pics. Sometimes. Sometimes on the internet. Sometimes they GTFO?
Okay, so is there other actual principles of, so like, from my maybe naive perspective,
is they have like the darkest aspects of trolling, which is like take nothing serious,
make a game out of everything. That's not 4chan per se. One of the things that you will learn
4chan, which I think is very healthy, is if you have an idiosocratic or unique worldview or focus
on an aspect of history or culture, you'll be able to find likeminded people who you will engage
with you and discuss it without being preptly dismissive. That's an ideal that they, well,
it's not an ideal. It's something that happens a lot. Now 4chan's not really like Paul is their
board with politics, but they will, you know, get into some like, the people there are much
more erudite than you think. So they do take, my perception was they take nothing seriously. So
there's things that they take seriously, like discussing ideas. I'll give you one example.
There was a video someone posted of a girl who put kittens in a bag and threw it in a river,
and they found out where she was within a day and got her like arrested. So yeah,
they do take some things very seriously. Okay. But that's like an extreme that, I mean, that's
good. First of all, that's heartwarming that they wouldn't somehow turn that into a thing.
That feels like more of, what is it? What's the other one? 8chan? 8chan's twice as good as 4chan,
yeah. That's their slogan. But it feels like they're the kind of community that would take that kitten
situation and make a mockery. Yeah, they're darker than 4chan. I'm not allowed to talk
about 16chan. I'm already overwhelmed clearly by 4chan, lingo. I have actually, I literally wrote
down in my notes, like in doing research for this conversation, I learned the word pleb,
and I wanted to ask you what this pleb means. You know what pleb means? No.
I saw, I mean, actually, no, I don't. You know what a pleb is? I just, I don't know what a pleb
is. Like a plebocyte or plebian. Okay. But does it mean something more sophisticated?
No, it's a very unsophisticated mechanism of being dismissive.
Of like the regular people. Yeah, or someone who comes at me on Twitter.
Okay. All right. So back to the 4chan alt right. It wasn't the...
Those are very different concepts. Don't conflate them.
But which internet culture was the alt right born out of?
Well, alt right was more born of blogs and people had different blogs that were posting what they
call like racial realism, scientific, which is scientific racism, so called, and, you know,
breaking down issues from a racialist perspective. So that wasn't, 4chan is much more dynamic.
It's a message board. It's a very fluid. So it doesn't lend itself to these kind of
in depth analysis of ideas or history. But it spreads them. Like it...
It spreads them as memes. Yeah. And, you know, but...
But it's not an essential mechanism of the alt right historical...
No. No, no, no, no, no, no.
So it's mostly about blogs. Okay. So what do you make of the psychology of this kind of worldview?
Well, when you have... This goes to your conspiracy theory subject earlier.
When you have a little bit of knowledge about something,
that history that no one's talking about, and there's only one group that is talking about it,
and they... And you have no alternative answers, you're going to be drawn to that group.
So because issues about race, anti semitism, homophobia are so taboo in our culture,
understandably, there's good reasons. If you start putting things like,
how old should you be if you have sex with kids and just have regular conversations,
eventually some people are going to start taking some positions you don't like.
So some things have to be sanctified to some extent.
They're the only ones talking about it. You're going to be drawn to that subculture.
And where does the alt right stand now? I mean, I hear that term used...
So the term has been weaponized by the corporate press for people that they
want to read out of society. So it's used both on individual levels,
like people like Evan Mikingis, Milo Yiannopoulos, some others.
I mean, I think they refer to Trump as alt right, and it's become a slur,
just like incel or bot that has become largely removed from its original meaning.
Do you have a sense that there's still a movement that's alt right or like...
Yeah, they call themselves... Okay, so there's something called the dissident right,
and they say, we're completely not like the alt right because the alt rights A, B, and C,
and we're B, C, D. There's a huge overlap. It's very much the same people.
Is there intellectuals that still represent some alt, some aspect of the movement?
I mean, sure... Are you tracking this?
Not that much anymore. I think they're... I don't find it particularly as...
Now that the book's done, I'm looking more into history from my next book.
You mentioned communism.
I'm going to talk a lot about the Cold War, so this kind of stuff has largely fallen away from
my radar to some extent. And they've also been... It's been a very effective movement to get
them marginalized and silenced. So they're not as deep of a concern in terms of concern or not,
just their impact on society. Yes, it's much lessened, yeah.
So as a troll on Twitter, in the best sense of the word, what do you make of cancel culture?
I think it's Maoism. I mean, the corporate America has done a far better job of implementing
Maoism than the Communist Party ever could. You had this meeting not that long ago,
from I think it was Northwestern University Law School, where everyone on the call got up and
said that they were racist. I mean, this is something that legally you should be very adverse
to saying, even if it were true. And it's this kind of concept of getting up and confessing
your sins before the collective is something completely...
Oh, sorry, they admitted this of themselves? Yeah, they were like... Because they're saying
because they're white, they're inherently racist. So my name's John, I'm a racist,
my name's this, I'm a racist. It was... You hear it and you're like, okay, this is looting tunes.
So you're saying that... Wow, that's so much... You took a step further. So you're saying there's
like a deep underlying force, in a sense, cancel culture. It's not just some kind of mob...
It's not mob at all. It's a systemic, organized movement being used for very nefarious purposes
and to dominate an entire nation. How do we fight it? Because I sense it inside.
I used to defend academia more because I still do to some extent. It's a nuanced discussion
because like folks like Jordan Peterson and a lot of people that kind of attack academia,
they refer... They really are talking about gender studies at certain departments. And me,
from MIT, it's the University of Science and Engineering and the faculty there really don't
think about these issues or haven't traditionally thought about it. It's beginning to even infiltrate
there. It's starting to infiltrate engineering and sciences outside of biology. Let's put biology
with the gender studies. I'm talking about sciences that really don't have anything to do with gender.
It's starting to infiltrate. It worries me. I don't know exactly what the negative
effect there would be, except it feels like it's anti intellectual. Oh yes, of course.
And I'm not sure what to... On the surface, it feels like a path towards progress. At first,
when I'm like zoomed out, it's just like squinting my eyes, not even in detail looking at
things. But when I actually joined the conversation to listen in the conversation on quote unquote
diversity, it quickly makes me realize that there's no interest in making a better world.
No, no. It's about domination. It's about getting... Yeah. It's a way for... If you are a lowest status
white person, using anti racism is the only mechanism you will have to feel superior to another
human being. So it's very useful for them. In terms of fighting it, one of my suggestions
has been to seize all university endowments, which are the crystallization of privilege
and distribute that money as reparations. So be very effective by turning two populations
against each other and strongly diminishing the university's intellectual hegemony.
The universities are absolutely the real villains in the picture. Thankfully, they're also the least
prepared to be aggressed upon. And after the government and the corporate press, they are the
last leg of the stool and they don't know it's coming and it's going to get ugly and I cannot
wait. So this is where you and I disagree part one. We disagree in a sense that you want to dismantle
broken institutions. I don't think they're broken. They're working like by design. I think for over
a hundred years, they have been talking about bringing the next generation of American leaders,
which is code for promulgating an ideology based on egalitarian principles and world domination.
Let me try to express my lived experience. My experience at MIT is that there's a bunch of
administrators that are bureaucracy. I can say this is the nice thing about having a podcast,
I don't give a damn, is they're pretty useless. In fact, they get in the way. But there's faculty,
there's professors that are incredible. They're incredible human beings that all they do all day,
they're too busy. But for the most part, what they do all day is just like continually pursue
different little trajectories of curiosities in the various avenues of science that they work on.
And as a side effect of that, they mentor a group of students, sometimes a large group of students,
and also teach courses. And they're constantly sharing their passion with others. And my experience
is it's just a bunch of people who are curious about engineering and math and science, chemistry,
artificial intelligence, computer science, what I'm most familiar with. And there's never this
feeling of MIT being broken somehow, like this kind of feeling, like if I talk to you just now,
or like Eric Weinstein, there's a feeling like stuff is on fire, right? There's something
she believes broken. But when I'm in the system, especially before the COVID, before this kind
of tension, everything was great. There was no discussion of even diversity, all that kind of
stuff, the toxic stuff that we might be talking about right now. None of that was happening.
There's a bunch of people just in love with cool ideas, exploring ideas, being curious and learning
and all that kind of stuff. So I don't, my sense of academia was this is the place where kids in
their 20s, 30s, and 40s can continue the playground of science and having fun. It's, if you destroy
academia, if you destroy universities, like you're suggesting kind of lessening their power,
you take away the playground from these kids to play.
It's going to be hard for you to tell me that I'm anti playground.
Yeah. Well, I guess I'm saying you're anti certain kinds of playgrounds, which is.
Yeah. The ones that have the broken glass on the floor. Yeah. I am against those kinds of
playgrounds. No, no, you're, you're, you're, no, see, that you see, that you listen, that you wait.
Yeah. I would say you're being the watchful mother who, the one kid who hurt themselves
in the glass. One kid, it's entire generation after generation. I'm not a watchful mother.
I'm the guy with the flamethrower. No, I understand that, but you're using the one kid who was
always kind of like weird gender studies department that hurt themselves on the glass,
as opposed to the people who are like, obviously having fun in the playground and not playing
by the glass, the broken glass. And they're just, I mean, to me, some of the best innovations in
science happen in universities. Okay. You can't forget that universities don't have this liberal
logic. Like politics, like literally in every conversation until this year, until this, this
year, there's something happening, but every conversation I've ever had and nothing to do
with politics would never, Trump never came up. None of that ever come up. Nothing. Like all this
kind of idea that there's liberal, all that, that that's in the humanities. Yeah. But do you think
MIT Massachusetts Institute of Technology might be a little bit of an outlier? Yeah,
there's probably is. Yeah. But I don't, I honestly don't think when people criticize academia,
they're looking at, they're in fact also picking the outliers, which is they're picking some of the
quote unquote, strongest gender studies department. This is nonsensical. When I was at Bucknell,
yeah, I was a college student, we had to take, you know, we had a bunch of electives and I
want to take a class on individual American individualism. One of the texts of the five
that we had to read was Birth of a Nation, the movie about the Klan. So there's no department
where these people are not thoroughgoing, hardcore ideologues. This is not a gender.
Fine. All the humanities, not just gender studies. Okay, fine. I can give you history,
English. Yes. All of them. Every university, as you know, has it mandatory in the curriculum,
they have to take a bunch of these propaganda classes. I look forward to YouTube comments
because you're being more eloquent and you're speaking to the thing that a lot of people agree
with and I'm being my usual slow self and people are going to say not very nice things about me.
Don't say anything that nice about Lex. Okay. Please. Let me try to just shoot up a school.
That would be preferable. There he goes again. Only the teachers. Going to the darkest possible
place. That's sunshine, baby schools. That's where everyone goes to be happy. Playgrounds.
There he goes. Dark ear. Just dives right in. Just go dark and then just comes back
off to the surface. You don't have to feel this way anymore. Just one day.
You're probably a figment of my imagination. I'm not even having this podcast.
Well, after 18 Red Bulls, I'm surprised you could see anything.
This is like Fight Club. Red Bull gives you deliria. Yeah.
Fight Club. I got into it at Norton yesterday on Twitter. Oh, really? Yeah.
Is he like the rest of the celebrities? Yeah. He's like, oh, this is an existential threat to
America. Trump's a fascist. He's delegitimizing the Oval Office. I said, what an odd endorsement of Trump.
Well, you should have went blue bad pit. He might have a different opinion. That's true.
Fight Club reference. Okay. Yeah. This conversation is over.
It's interesting. I'd like to draw a line between science and engineering and science
not including the biological aspect, the parts of biology that touch and humanities and biology.
I feel because humanities, if you just look at the percentage of universities, it's still
a minority percentage. I would actually draw different, I think they serve very different
purposes. Sure. That's actually a broken part about universities. Why is some of the best
research in the world done at universities? There might be a different... MIT, it feels weird
that a faculty... Yeah, these are conceptually different things. We do research and we teach.
Why is this the same? Yeah, it feels weird. But I'm also coming to the defense of the
engineers that never talk about... I'm not deluded or something where I'm not seeing the
house on fire. I'm just saying I am seeing the house because I also lived in Harvard Square.
I'm seeing Harvard, but... When you see the tanks coming, they're coming, Lex. It's going to be so
beautiful. It'll be like the American beauty, the plastic bag. I just won't be able to stop crying
because it'll be so beautiful for tanks. I can already see it. But the engineering
departments where I believe that the Elon Musk's of the world, the innovation
that will make a better world is happening, and let's not burn that down because that has
nothing to do with any... They're all sitting quietly while the humanities and all these
kind of diversity programs, they're not having any of these discussions. Listen, my Soviet brother,
you both know that ice water runs in our veins. So if you're calling for mercy, that is not how
I'm wired, but I'm not closing the door. Yeah. I'm actually realizing now, so for people listening
to this, I'll probably prepend this and saying that I'm even slower than usual. I didn't sleep
last night, but I feel I'm actually realizing just how slow I am and how much preparation I need to do
and if I would like to defend the aspects of academia, I better come prepared. I don't think
you need to defend them. I think I'm granting you your premise freely. No, you might be.
I don't think the world is. Actually, you just defeat your own argument because it is not at all
have to be the way that a phenomenal research institution like MIT, which no one disputes,
has to also be an educational establishment. These two things are not at all necessarily
interconnected. But then you have to offer a way to separate them. Correct. But I'm not a big fan.
Everybody's different, but I'm not a fan of criticizing institutions without offering
a way to change. And especially when I'm like, have ability to change, I'd like to,
yeah, I'd like to offer a path. What if they weren't students, they were all mentors?
What's the opposite of mentor? Menti. Protg. What's the term when you work at a place,
interns, not an intern, it's not the one I'm thinking of. But anyway, like basically,
they're working there instead of going to college there. It's possible, but it's going against
tradition. And so you have to build new institutions and then. Can't have these engineers building
new things. That's crazy. Yeah. These research engineers, where they're going to be building
things. Well, one of the things, because you're kind of, you know, apprentice, that's the word I
was looking at. Apprentice. Which is ironic, we're talking about Trump and we couldn't think of the
word apprentice. Yeah. Well done. We should both be fired. There you go. These Russian Jews so
quick with their wit. Okay. But the thing is, you're a fan of freedom. I am. And there's,
there is intellectual freedom. People, this is what I was trying to articulate. I'm failing to
articulate, but there truly is complete intellectual freedom within universities
on topics of science and engineering. I believe you. Yeah. I agree with you. I don't think it's
going to take much persuasion, but I'll give you an example. When that, I'm sure you know
the more details about this than I do. When that scientist engineered that probe to land on that
comet. And the articles are written because this Hawaiian shirt he was wearing had like
pinup girls on it, which I think is female student, so frame or something, where his ex
girlfriend and he had to apologize. This is what Rand was talking about. Yeah. That the great
accomplishments of men have to say, I'm sorry, to the lowest, most despicable, disgusting people.
Yeah. I don't know. You know, let me bring this case up because I think about this.
This might not mean much to you, but it means a lot to certain aspects of the computer science
community. There's a guy named Richard Stallman. I don't know if you know who that is. No. He's the
founder of the free software foundation. He's like a big Linux. He's one of the key people in
the history of computer science. One of those open source people, right? But he is like,
I believe he's the one of the hardcore ones, which is like saw all software should be free.
Okay. Okay. So it's very interesting personality, very key person in the new, just like Linus
Torvald, key person. So, but he also kind of speaks his mind and on a certain chain of conversations
at MIT that was leaked to the New York Times, then was published, let him to be fired or pushed out
of MIT recently, maybe a year ago. And it always set weird with me. So what happened is
there's a few undergraduate students that called Marvin Minsky. Not sure if you're
familiar with who that is. I've heard the name. He's one of the seminal people in artificial
intelligence. They said that they called him a rapist because he met with Jeffrey Epstein.
And Jeffrey Epstein solicited, these are the best facts known to me that I'm aware of. That's
what was stated on the chain is he solicited a 17, but it might have been an 18 year old girl
to come up to Marvin Minsky and ask him if he wanted to have sex with her.
So Jeffrey Epstein told the girl, she came up to Marvin Minsky who was at that time is,
I think, seven years old and his wife was there too, Marvin Minsky's wife. And he said no or like,
you know, awkwardly saying, no, thanks. And that was stated in the email thread
as Marvin participating in sexual assault and rape of this unwilling sexual assault. And it
was called rape of this person, right? Of this woman that propositioned him. And then Richard
Stallman, who's, he's kind of known for this. He's very, he's, you make fun of me being a robot,
but he's kind of like a debugger. He's like, well, that sentence is not what you said is not
correct. So he like corrected the person basically made it seem like the use of the word rape is
not correct because that's not the definition of rape. And then he was attacked for saying,
oh, now you're playing with definitions of rape. Rape is rape is the answer, right? And then that
was leaked in him defending. So the way it was leaked, it was reported as him defending rape.
That's the way it was reported. And he was pushed out and he didn't really give a damn.
It's, he doesn't seem to make a big deal out of it. He just left. He made an example of him.
They made an example and that, and that everyone was afraid to defend him. So like, there's a
bunch of faculty one, dude, you're from the Soviet Union. Doesn't this hit close to home for you?
I don't know what to think of it. It hits close to home, but it was basically,
at least at MIT. Now, MIT is such a light place with this. It's not common at MIT,
but it was like 18, 19 year old kids, undergraduate kids with this kind of fire in them.
There's just very few of them, but they're the ones that raise all this kind of fuss.
And the entirety of the administration, all the faculty are afraid to stand up to them.
It's so interesting to me. Like, I don't know if I should be afraid of that.
You don't think you should be afraid that someone who's trying to be specific when it
comes to charges of violent assault is looking for that clarity to get their life out of search.
Let me give you more context. There's a little bit more context to Richard Stallman, which is...
He was also a rapist.
No.
I left out that part. He liked raping people.
But he's had a history through his life of, you know, every once in a while wearing the
Hawaiian shirt with, like he would make, he's a fat, sorry, but he's a fat unattractive.
He, like what Trump referred to the hacker in the basement, that's Richard.
Okay. I love, you know, he is what he is. You know, people, he like, he would eat his own,
he would pick skin from his feet in lectures and just eat it.
No.
Okay. Yeah. Those videos him doing that.
He must, I'm not joking. He must really behind the spectrum then.
Yeah. Okay.
Yeah. And, you know, I think this, and his office, door, he wrote something like
hacker plus lover of ladies or something like that. Like something kind of, yeah.
Yeah.
Unprofessional.
Yeah. Unprofessional. And a little creepy.
Yeah. Yeah. No, that's fair.
That is, yeah.
So he was also...
So they're looking for an excuse to get rid of him.
It sounds like.
No. He was just a, who's they?
The administration.
Yeah. Probably.
Probably.
A lot of times what people don't realize, and this would be my defensive cancel culture,
a lot of times when someone gets fired over something like this,
this isn't why. This is just giving them cover to get rid of them without getting a lawsuit.
Yeah.
But it's still...
Gross.
So I think, I guess what I'm trying to communicate is he was a little weird and creepy
and he may not be the best for the community, but that's not necessarily the message it's
sent to the rest of the community. The message is sent to the rest of the community that being
clear about words or the usage of the word rape is like, you should call everything rape.
That's basically the message he was sent.
Or you should call that we say rape rape. It's about submission.
I think I'm, you'd be very happy to know that there's a lot of people,
and she's very crucified, but it's like Betsy DeVos from the Department of Education,
who are aware of this. They are aware that it's completely contradicts due process.
They're aware of how a rape accusation is something not to be taken seriously,
but because it's not to be taken seriously, it has to be also taken seriously in the other context
that once that word is around a male, this can ruin his entire life.
And that's the sticky thing of the word.
Like I think about this a lot that,
like how would I defend it if somebody, like I've never, I can honestly say I've never done
anything close to creepy in my life, like with women.
But you wouldn't know it if you had, right?
That's the thing. A lot of these creepy guys don't think they're creepy.
They think they're being cute.
Yeah, but I'm just telling you, even like, fine, let's say, right, let's say I'm not aware of it,
but the point that I am aware of is that somebody could just completely make something up.
Correct. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Okay.
And like what a, what would I do?
No, he denied the charges. There's an article around everything he did, supposedly.
And it goes, Mr. Friedman denied the charges. Yeah.
But what creeps me out?
That happened. Can I interrupt?
There's Zorniel Hurston is one of my favorite writers.
She's from the Harlem Renaissance.
Um, she wrote, their eyes are watching God, a couple of other books.
She was just an amazing, amazing figure.
Her biography is called, um, wrapped in rainbows.
It's just a masterpiece. I like, I think I read it one day.
Can't recommend her enough.
Fascinating, fascinating woman.
During the thirties, I think it was her 1940.
She was out of the country.
She was accused of molesting a teenage boy.
She wasn't in America.
This could be proven.
So there's, it's absolutely false.
Not even a question.
She was indicted and she wanted to kill herself
because she's like, people are going to see these things.
And they're going to think maybe there's some truth to it.
Maybe it was voluntary, what they're just going to,
and you could understand why she'd be suicidal over this.
So yeah, this is, this is something that's been going on for a long time.
And in the fact that it's becoming, I do agree.
It's important. I know a lot of women who have been sexually assaulted
more than I am happy that I know.
And if I know that many, that means there's more.
So I don't, I think it's, it's a good idea that they feel seen,
that they don't feel wounded.
They don't feel damaged or they could talk to their friends.
And I'm like, man, this sucks as having you.
And, and I don't think you're a slut.
I don't think you're asking for it.
I think you feel violated.
If he gets gross, talk to me.
Like I do think that that's important.
And I also think it's important though,
like when things get kind of in a frenzy,
that a lot of people like, yeah, I also had something happen.
And very quickly, the line between he grabbed my boob
and he violently raped me.
I don't think these two things are the same at all.
I think they're both sexual assault.
But in terms of what someone can deal with the next day,
the next month, 10 years later,
I don't think they're similar scenarios.
Yeah.
I had Juanita Broderick on my show and hearing her talk about,
you know, her alleged rape by Bill Clinton was very disturbing for me.
Very disturbing to hear because it was like half an hour.
So, you know, we think of these things and think,
okay, hold her down, blah, blah, blah.
And then it's done half an hour when,
just even someone physically holding you down for half an hour.
Like not even a sexual assault.
Like that's traumatic.
You think, am I gonna,
your brain's gonna think am I gonna die?
When I zoom out, I think the ultimately,
this is gonna lead to a better world.
Like empowering women to speak to those kinds of experiences.
The benefit of it outweighs the.
The issue is whenever people are given a weapon,
some are going to use it in nefarious ways.
And that's the lesson of history.
Males, when males, females, whites, blacks, children, adults,
when people are given a mechanism to execute power for others,
some are gonna use it.
Can I ask you for a therapy thing?
Sure.
Untrolling in a sense.
Because I mentioned somebody making up something about me.
I feel because I wear my heart on my sleeve.
I'm not good with these attacks.
Like I've been attacked recently,
just being called a fraud and all that kind of stuff.
Just light stuff.
Like I haven't, you know, it was like, it hurt.
Okay, well, let me help you.
Maybe it's because I'm a New Yorker.
No, I'm serious.
Here's why.
In New York, a lot of times you'll be walking with your friend
and a homeless person will come up to you
and start yelling things at you.
Your reaction isn't in those circumstances.
Let me hear this out.
Your reaction is physical safety and getting away.
Now, it's not impossible that that homeless person
is actually saying the truth.
This happened to my friend of mine.
This guy wasn't homeless and he's walking down the street
on Smith Street and he's just talking out loud.
And it goes, why they call them hipsters?
What are they a hip to?
And she chuckles and it goes, what are you laughing at, fatso?
You start something, I'll finish it.
And she just couldn't move.
And it's like, it might be a problem
because that's the first thing he went to.
And there's, I don't know that I have any advice,
but when you hear something like this,
I think you need to be better in terms of boundaries.
I think you should not perceive this as a fellow human,
but as a crazy homeless person because if this fellow human,
if I thought that you were a fraud in some context,
that's a very weird word to use
because fraudulent podcaster, these are real mics.
But if I thought...
Well, scientists are human.
Sure, but I would ask myself,
is this person in a position to make this judgment?
Or are they backing it up?
Are they saying, here, your conclusions were wrong,
here's some mistakes in your data,
and you can engage with them in ideas,
but whenever someone uses a word
to entirely dismiss your life
without having the knowledge of your life,
you do not have to take that seriously.
I appreciate that kind of idea,
but some things aren't about data.
Like, you know, I see myself as a fraud often,
and it's more psychology of it.
If I can reduce something to reason,
I can probably be fine.
My worry is the same as the worry of teenage girls
that get bullied online.
It's like, when I'm being open and fragile on the Internet,
it affects me in a way where I can't...
The reason doesn't help.
So it helps me, but...
You don't block people enough.
I'm very heavy with the blocking.
No, I... So, yeah, I block...
Very heavy.
I block... It's helped a lot.
Any aggressive banality, I block immediately.
I also think time is going to help.
I don't think you're...
Like, you grew up wanting to be a podcaster, right?
That wasn't your aspiration.
So in some sense, you are going to feel like a fraud
because you're like, I don't have any training for this.
I have training for a scientist.
I can talk to you about artificial intelligence
for literally hours.
But in terms of this, I don't know what I'm doing.
I'm kind of...
So when they call you a fake, it's like, yeah, you're kind of right.
Because I did kind of stumble into this.
And this is not my pedigree.
So I think that kind of probably speaks to you on some level.
But they're attacking not the podcast thing,
but more like the same...
People call Elon Musk a fraud, too.
Which that's the way I rationalize it.
Like, well, if they're calling him a fraud
and they're calling me a fraud,
like, even if you have rockets that go into...
Like, if you successfully have rockets landing back on Earth,
reusable rockets, you're still being called a fraud,
then it's okay.
Not necessarily.
It could be that he's not a fraud, and you really are.
That's...
It's not resonating with you because your brain knows the logic,
so you can't create yourself.
Right. But, yeah.
Yeah.
But I don't know.
This whole trolling thing,
you seem to be much better at seeing it as a game.
You know why?
Because you are under the delusion
that every human being is capable of intelligent, reasoned decisions.
I still think I'm right.
And I perceive them as literally animals.
So when a dog starts barking,
all it's saying is that the dog is agitated,
and this is not going to change my life
when I order other than crossing the street, perhaps.
Yeah.
I'm going to prove you wrong one day.
Yeah. I'm going to prove you wrong one day.
If you're going to kill yourself because they can drive you to it.
The first shoot up of school.
But if I don't, I'll prove you wrong.
I'll bring the data.
And they'd be like, you're right, Lex.
I have the receipts.
Okay.
So we mentioned Camu.
Oh, yeah, I love him.
Is there...
This is a question that people love when I ask.
A really smart paper.
Or it is love.
No.
What books, let's say three books,
if you can think of them, technical, fiction, philosophical,
would you had a big impact on you?
Or would you recommend to others?
Sure.
The Machiavellians by James Burnham.
This is a book about how politics works in reality
as opposed to how people imagine it working.
Menchus Moldbug, who's a figure in these circles,
who's respected by a lot of people.
I was giving a talk and there was a bunch of panelists
and we were asked, what book would you recommend?
I said the Machiavellians.
Independently of me, that was the book he had recommended.
It's out of print.
It's hard to find, but that would be one...
Is that his book or no?
James Burnham.
It came out in 1941, I think.
So can you pause on the mulchers?
Menchus Moldbug.
That's a code name, right?
That guy's dependent.
Curtis Jarvan.
This is his real name.
He swims in your circles.
He doesn't plan a program.
Oh, he's originally a program.
He comes up as a person that I should talk with
or I should know about,
but then I read a few of his things
and they seem quite dangerous.
They're very long and verbose,
but I think he's an amazing thinker.
But he's the one who had the idea
of sending the tanks to Harvard Yard.
But doesn't he have like...
Here's some radical views.
I forget what they are.
Very radical views.
Yeah, he wants a military coup.
But you're saying he's a serious thinker
that is worthy of not worthy.
I don't know that you would enjoy
having a conversation with him.
I think a lot of people enjoy seeing it happen,
but I think it'd be a lot of talking
past each other and it would be interesting.
What do you agree and would you disagree?
Okay.
What do you agree?
What do you disagree with?
I agree with him that politics has to be looked at objectively
and without kind of an emotional connection
to different schools.
I talk about him a lot in my book on the new right.
Disagree?
I don't think a military coup is a good idea.
He doesn't think anarchism is stable.
I disagree.
I mean, to me and him, I did his live stream with him.
We just dorked out a lot about history
and like people who've fallen in the memory hole.
So, I mean, he's got a lot of writing.
So, you know, the sense I got from him
was that if I talk with him,
a lot of people would be upset with me
for giving him a platform.
Yeah, I think he's on that edge
where they want to read him out of what is acceptable discourse.
What's his most controversial...
I mean, you keep mentioning the tanks.
Is that the most controversial viewpoint?
Does he have a race thing?
No, the alt right doesn't particularly like him in many ways
because he's not a big race thing.
I don't know what would be his most controversial view,
to be honest.
I think because he is radical
in terms of his analysis of culture,
anytime someone's a radical, that is dangerous.
Yeah, it's dangerous.
Okay, book...
So, that's one...
The Fountainhead.
Which is a...
I would say...
Not Atlas Shrug?
No, and if you read Atlas Shrug
before reading The Fountainhead,
you're doing yourself enormous to service.
Don't you dare do it.
On the philosophical because...
Every level.
On every level.
The Fountainhead's a better novel.
The Fountainhead's superfluous
if you read Atlas Shrug first.
Fountainhead's about psychology and ethics.
It does not have to do with her politics
other than its implications.
So, it's by far the superior book.
The third one...
Oh, this is a good one question.
Let me see.
Well, there's so many good books out there that I love.
I'm going to...
This is not really my third choice,
but I'll throw it out there because I...
This is such an important worldview,
especially for people on the right.
Are you virtue signaling?
No, this is counter signaling.
Thaddeus Russell's book,
A Renegade History of the United States.
His thesis is that it's the degenerates
that give us all freedom.
And things like prostitutes,
things like madams,
things like slaves,
things like immigrants.
Because they were so low status,
they could get away with things
that then people who are higher status demanded
and so on and so forth.
So, I think that thesis and it really has extreme consequences
in thinking.
Oh, and Jonathan Haidt, The Righteous Mind.
Those are the four.
Is that his best?
I haven't read any of his stuff.
The Righteous Mind is the only one you want.
Okay.
That was four, but of course...
Forget Thaddeus Russell, we'll put Haidt in there.
Of course he would.
No, forget Thaddeus, those are the three.
So, we talked about love.
Let me ask you the other question I'm obsessed with.
So, do you ponder your own mortality?
I do a lot, especially now that I'm an uncle,
especially now that I have these younger people that I mentor.
I was just yesterday, my friend John Gurgus,
who did my theme song for my podcast,
who did the book cover for Dear Reader,
who's the most talented person I know.
His song came on, The iPod at the Gym.
And I almost messaged him.
I go, you know, one day one of us is going to bury the other
and it's going to be really sad.
And I thought about that and it was kind of just like,
oh man, that's really going to suck.
And you know, I don't know which scenario would be better.
Like, I will be very sad if he's gone.
I'm sure he'll be very sad if I'm gone.
I mean, are you afraid of it?
No, you know, Rand had this quote about how
I won't die, the world will end.
So, I've had enough experiences that I am, I've really,
at this point, everything's icing on the cake.
So, if I were to kill you at the end of this podcast,
it would feel painless.
That would be okay.
Yeah.
You know why?
Does anyone know you're here by the way?
I was asking for a friend.
Here's why.
Yeah.
There's that wit.
Save that for Twitter, Lex.
Did they call you Sasha?
No, I'm Liosha.
Liosha.
Oh, that's my sister's husband.
Okay.
So, here's why I strongly believe,
and this is a very kind of Jewish perspective,
that you just have to leave the world a little bit better
than you found it,
that all you could do is move the needle a little.
And one of the things I set out to do with Dear Reader,
my book on North Korea,
I said, I was at a point in my career
where I could do something to make a difference
instead of just writing like coauthoring books
for celebrities,
which I'm very proud of,
but you know, are neither here nor there.
And I thought, all right, I know how to tell stories.
I know how to inform people and 110 people.
If I move the needle in America, cares,
we got a really good here.
If I move the needle in North Korea a little bit,
the cost benefits through the roof.
I never thought of that actually.
I never thought of Dear Reader from that perspective.
So, when I set out to write it,
I'm like, okay, what can I do?
I'm not going to be able to liberate the North Korean regime.
What I can do is the camera right now
is focused on at the time Kim Jong Il,
not Kim Jong Un.
And I can do just this a little bit.
And I go, behind that guy who you think is funny clown,
there's millions of dead people.
There's children being starved.
There's people who are performing
because they have a gun to their kid's head.
And if someone put a gun to your kid's head,
you'd put on those dancing shoes real quick.
And I and others have managed to change the conversation
about North Korea in terms of look at those silly buffoons
to those poor people.
So, the fact that that little thing I can say
with a straight face, I did, doesn't make me a great person,
but it does make me someone who if I have to go tomorrow,
I can say I did a little bit to make the world a better place.
What do you think is the meaning of life?
I think the meaning of life is...
Why are we here?
Oh, well, I'm a Camus person.
So, I'll give the Camus answer.
So, there's two types of people.
Those who know how to use binary, no.
Thanks for relating to the audience.
One, one, one, zero, zero, one, two, two.
Down vote.
What kind of radical freak is this, Lex?
So, and I use this example in my forthcoming book.
You go into a countryside, a mountainside,
and you see a blank canvas on an easel.
And one kind of mentality goes, this is...
It's just a blank canvas.
This is stupid.
This is what am I looking at?
And the other type goes, what a great opportunity.
I'm in this beautiful space.
I have this entire canvas to paint.
I could do anything I want with it.
So, I am very much of that type two person.
And I hope others start to think of life in that way.
You and I have both been more successful
than we expected to, especially growing up.
And in ways we did not expect.
And when you're young, you are so intent on driving the car.
And after a certain point, you realize it's not about
driving the car, it's you're being a surfer.
That you can only control this little board.
And you have no idea where the waves will take you.
And sometimes you're going to fall down
and sometimes you're going to suck
and you're going to swallow some salt water.
But at a certain point, you stop trying to drive.
And you're like, this is freaking awesome
and I have no idea where it's going to go.
Beautifully put, I know I speak for a lot of people.
First of all, everyone loves the game you play on the internet.
It's fun.
Not everyone.
You make the world not everyone.
Today, they came from the yard.
But it makes the world seem fun.
And especially in this dark time, it's much appreciated.
And we can't wait till the next book and the many to come
and to hopefully many more Joe Rogan appearances.
You guys do some great magic together.
It's fun.
It's, yeah, you're one of my favorite guests on this show.
So I can't wait, especially if you can make it before the election.
Thanks so much for making today happen.
I'm glad you came down.
You're awesome.
Thank you so much.
What a great compliment.
Thanks for listening to this conversation with Michael Malis
and thank you to our sponsors, SEMrush, which is a SEO optimization tool,
DoorDash, which is my go to food delivery service,
and Masterclass, which is online courses from world experts.
Please check out these sponsors in the description to get a discount
and to support this podcast.
If you enjoy this thing, subscribe on YouTube,
review it with five stars and up a podcast,
follow on Spotify, support on Patreon,
or connect with me on Twitter at Lex Freedman.
And now let me leave you with some words from Michael Malis.
Conservatism is progressivism driving the speed limit.
Thank you for listening.
Thank you.